Johnson 2
(1938) compiled a species list of saxicolous and lignicolous
lichens collected on Point Lobos Reserve, California, 5 km south¬
west of the most southern of the study sites in this paper.
The purpose of this paper is to describe in detail the species
distribution of some lichens in the supralittoral zone of the
rocky shores of southern Monterey Bay. In the supralittoral zone,
defined by Weddel (1875) and more recently by Fletcher (1973),
lichen thalli are seldom, if ever, immersed by waves, but appear
to favor at least occasional sea-water spray. Only saxicolous
lichens were surveyed, although Arthopyrenia sublitoralis (Leight.)
Arnold is known (Kohlmeyer, 1969) to grow on the shells of limpets
and barnacles in this region. Distribution of twelve species of
lichens was related to variations in physical and environmental
parameters.
Exposure to wave action was one parameter investigated. The
term exposure describes the magnitude of waves, splash, and spray
generated by the interaction of wind and numerous environmental
factors on a shore. Exposure values can be conveniently determined
from observations of the dominant marine algae, and are therefore
biologically rather then physically based for the purpose of this
paper. Marine animals are not used as exposure indicators because
of the uncertain effects of sea otter (Enhydra lutris) predation
upon local invertebrate populations. At certain depths, deprada¬
tions of populations are clear, but in the mid and high intertidal
zones populations may bein crevices and other refuges safe from
otter predation.
The distribution of supralittoral lichens is further related
