Abstract. This study examined the diet of the generalized
predatory sea star Pisaster giganteus, comparing proportions of
various species in the diet to abundance in the habitat.
Comparisons to assess temporal variation were made to similar data
collected in the same site in 1981 (Harrold 1981). Relative
frequencies of prey species in the diet and in the habitat were
tabulated. The past and present diets of sea stars overlap
considerably, with a Morista overlap index of 0.667 and nearly
identical Shannon-Weiner diversity indices (2.035 in 1981 compared
to 2.029 now). However, a Chi-square analysis reveals several
major differences: (1) the absence of the vermetid gastropod
Petaloconchus montereyensis, and (2) an increase in the frequency
of two other sessile prey species, the barnacle Balanus spp. and
another vermetid, Serpulorbis squamigerus.
The absence of
Petaloconchus in the diet was due to its low abundance in the
habitat. The increased feeding on Balanus and Serpulorbis cannot
be explained by changes in abundance, which were not statistically
significant.
Rather. I hypothesize that the absence of
Petaloconchus, previously a reliable, easily obtainable source of
energy, led to increased feeding on these other sessile prey
species. Further study is needed to explore the impact of other
factors, such as individual sea star variation.
