INTRODUCTION
The diets of various asteroids have been well studied (e.g.
Mauzey et. al 1968, Menge 1972, Nakashima 1974, Harrold 1981,
Herrlinger 1983). Observed prey choices and proportions in the
diets have been examined for several generalist sea stars.
Pisaster giganteus is a subtidal sea star which feeds by everting
its cardiac stomach on prey and digesting externally. Harrold
(1981) analyzed various aspects of its feeding ecology by
comparing the abundance of prey in the diet to availability
(factoring in numerical abundance, ease of capture and presence in
the same microhabitat), caloric yield and predator choice.
However, since then, little work has been done to follow up
this study and record or explain any temporal variation. Menge
(1972) reported temporal variation in prey choice by L. hexactis
prey, both daily (with the tides) and seasonally, as the
availability or ease of capture of different prey species varied.
Seasonal changes followed abundance patterns of calorie-rich or
calorie-poor species. However, studies have not been done to
explore variation in feeding ecology from year to year and make
comparisons to environmental changes such as prey abundance.
This study compared the diet of Pisaster giganteus to Harrold
(1981), with two main goals: (1) to record differences in diet
composition and prey abundance, and (2) to infer an explanation
from these results. The results showed several major dietary
changes correlated with the disappearance of a frequently eaten
species in the habitat. Analysis of these changes confirms
previous speculation on Pisaster foraging strategy.
