hours in closed glass liter jars. Because DDT co-
distills with water, stock and experimental jars
were opened as infrequently as possible. Since the
pesticide has a low solubility in water (1.2 ppb
fresh stock solutions were made up daily to prevent
partieles from settling out. Ten adult females were
placed in each jar at a density of 1 animal/50 ml
and appropriate concentrations of p,p' DDT dissolved
in 954 ethanol were added. For the 24 hour experi-
ments Dor concentrations ranged frou 10-500. ppb, for
the 48 hour experiments from 1-50 ppb. The values
were chosen after preliminary screenings at higher
and lower concentrations. Ethanol controls were run
with all experiments.
Atter incubation, copepods were removed indivi
dually from the jars and examined under a dissecting
microscope. They were classifled as visibly unaf-
fected, visibly affected, and dead. Visibly affected
animals were those unable to swim actively or at-
tempt to escape the presence of the pipette. They
rested without moving on the bottom of the jars or
twitched spasmodically and asymmetrically. Swimming
movements were ineffectual. If no twitching was ob-
served, heart beat and/or anal contractions identi-
fied a visibly affected animal.
The animals in the respiration experiments were
ncubated at 1 ppb in the closed jars described a-
bove for 0-144 hours. As before ethanol controls
