heteroclitus. Fundulus is a teleost fish which lives in estuarine
environments along the Atlantic coast from Newfoundland to Florida
(Powers et al., 1992). This animal was chosen because it has been
shown to have a high tolerance to hypoxic water and it has been the
subject of numerous biochemical physiological and genetic studies
(Greaney et al., 1978; Powers et al., 1992).
Previous studies (Greaney et al., 1980) demonstrated that LDH
activity in F. heteroclitus liver tissue was about 50 percent higher
than normoxic control levels after exposing the fish to two weeks of
hypoxia. Hypoxia was defined as 1.5- 2.5 ppm oxygen concentrations
in the water. Greaney et al. (1980) distinguished between shortÂ¬
term and long- term enzymatic/ hormonal responses to hypoxia in
Fundulus. The short-term response was an increase in the
production of LDH and other glycolytic enzymes in response to a drop
in oxygen concentration. The long- term response was an increase in
red blood cells as possibly caused by an increase in erythropoietin
hormone. As the amount of red blood cells increase, intracellular O2
concentrations also increase. This reduces the need for increased
glycolysis. Greaney et al. (1980) demonstrated that in the first 4
weeks of hypoxia, LDH activity remained at a relatively constant
level above the control and then dropped back to the control level by
the fifth week. An increase in hematocrit (red blood cell
concentration) was shown to parallel the increase in LDH activity
during the first 4 weeks. However, during the fifth week,
erythrocyte levels remained higher than control levels.
