METHODS
The area of study was located on the Monterey Peninsula of Cali¬
fornia, on two contrasting pocket beaches near Hopkins Marine Station.
A diagram of the study area is presented in figure 1. The locations of
sample stations relative to tidal height is also presented. The front
beach is subjected to heavy wave action while the back beach is rela¬
tively protected. Three transects were set up on the front beach, two
on the back beach. Samples of sand were collected on three days for
each beach during the period from May 9 to May 18. Samples were col¬
lected above the higher high water line (station 4) at higher high tide
and subsequent samples were taken at four equidistant lower tidal levels
(stations 3-1) extending to just below the lower low water line as the
water receded to uncover the area. The three intertidal stations were
then again sampled starting at the lowest and moving up the beach to
obtain sand that had been uncovered as long as possible. Samples were
collected at one depth of approximately 15 cm below the surface of the
sand as little variation in organic carbon content was expected to that
depth. (Steele, 1968).
The organic carbon content was estimated by oxidation with sul¬
furic acid-dichromate with a glucose standard, using a slightly modi¬
fied procedure of the one described by Strickland and Parsons, 1968.
Fractionation of the organic matter involved use of hot and cold
trichloracetic acid for polyssacharide and nucleic acid extraction,
ether-ethanol and .IN NaOH for lipid and protein extraction, respectively.
