1). The Pairwise Chie Test in conjuction with the
Formula for Combining Probabilities for Independent
Tests of Significance (X* Combined) was used to analyze
field data (Sokal and Rohlf, 1969). In the rowboat
study the nighttime peak number of mysids detected in
open water is significantly greater than the daytime
values (X Combined, p£05). In the diver study the
nighttime value for the number of mysids counted in
open water samples was slightly greater than the
daytime value, but a statistical test failed to show
significance (X* Combined, p£.20). Also in the diver
study, the number of mysids detected in the kelp canopy
at night was slightly less than that during the day but was
again insignificant (X Combined, p£.20).
In the LD 14:10 experiment, peak numbers of
mysids were detected in the open water during hours of
darkness (Figure 2). A mean was calculated for three
consecutive nighttime readings starting with 2200h and
for three consecutive daytime readings starting with
1000h. The Student's t-test for the Comparison of Two
Percentages (PTT) was used to collate the two means
(Sokal and Rohlf, 1969). The nighttime mean was
significantly greater than the daytime mean (PTT, p£.05
).
In the LL experiment, the mysids remained closely
associated with kelp during all periods of observation
(Figure 2). At no time was more than 2% of the total
