Andrew V. Muchmore
by the lack of decolorization of the iodine-starch complex,
and quantitatively by the reducing sugar test. This latter
test indicated that, if amylase were present, it produces
less than 30 x 10-9 moles reducing sugar per hour per mom
protein.
Enzyme extracts assayed for carbohydrase activit,
were prepared from embryos obtained from different females.
For comparison of enzyme activity during development, eggs
of five females were pooled, and enzyme activity was deter.
mined in the unfertilized egg, trocophore, and veliger
stages. The rates of enzyme activity of these various
stages are shown in Table I and Fig. I. Table I shows that
by the veliger stage, regardless of previous activity, the
embryos homogenized in ovomucoid show a greater activity
than the extracts prepared without this trypsin-inhibiting
compound. This could indicate the development of a trypsin¬
like protease. This conclusion is also supported by Fig. II,
which shows that storage of IK at 0°c, without ovomucoid,
results in considerable loss of activity, and that this loss
does not occur with ovomucoid present. Similar stabilization
of activity was also observed with laminarinase activity.
Isocitrate dehydrogenase activity in the unfertilized eggs
(Table I) shows anomalous behavior in ovomucoid which is
unlike the activity of HK and zr. The reasons for this are
unclear.
360
