Andrew V. Muchmore
Removal of the chorion by the alkaline sea water
treatment of Wolfson (1907) was necessary to obtain ferti-
lization and normal development. For A. scutum, best
results were obtained by 90 minutes incubation in alkaline
sea water (2.5 ml of O.IN NaOH in 100 ml of filtered sea
water, final phi 9.2). The alkaline sea water was then
removed, the eggs resuspended in filtered sea water, and
1 ml of sperm suspension added. After two hours the eggs
were agitated, allowed to settle, and the supernatant
water containing most of the sperm removed and filtered
sea water added. After about 36 hours, the embryos were
gently centrifuged, and resuspended in freshly filtered
sea water. Above operations were all performed at 15-17 C
Enzyme preparation:
Assays of one large group of eggs were made before
fertilization, 24 hours after fertilization at the troco-
phore stage, and 48 hours after fertilization at the
veliger stage. In initial experiments, enzyme instabilit
was noted, which suggested the possibility of degradative
enzymes (such as proteases). Therefore, in some experi-
ments 6-9 milligrams ovomucoid prepared by the method of
Fredricq and Deutsch (1949) were added to one half of the
samples as a specific trypsin inhibitor.
