ABSTRACT:
Propranolol is a non-selective ß-blocker that has recently proven useful in the
treatment of social anxiety and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. Recollection of a memory
requires that the memory pathway be strengthened by continual re-visitation. This re¬
visitation requires the activation of B-adrenergic receptors by catecholamines such as
epinephrine and norepinephrine, two important signalers in the fight-or-flight stress
response. Propranolol blocks this activation and thus prevents the strengthening and
maintenance of memory pathways. Most previous studies have utilized either human or
rodent study subjects. Zebra fish provide a unique opportunity to examine an organism
with a different scale of neuro-complexity and a more accessible genome, which could
eventually lead to greater understanding of the coupling between B-receptors and
memory. The fish (Danio rerio) were trained to associate tapping on the glass of their
aquarium with a positive (Tap+Food), negative (Tap-Net), or neutral experience (Tap).
Control fish (No Tap) were not exposed to tapping during the three week training
process. After re-activation of the memory, propranolol was dissolved in the water at a
concentration of 27uM. The anxiety levels and memory retention of the fish were then
tested after 1, 2, 3 and 18 hours. Preliminary data suggests that propranolol has a major
impact on the anxiety levels of the negative, neutral and control fish and may have some
effect on fish receiving the positive reinforcement regime. Additionally, propranolol
decreases the strength and accuracy of spatial memory in fish trained using positive
reinforcement. Propranolol also differently affects paired associative learning and non¬
paired habituation learning, suggesting that these pathways are differently dependent on
B-receptors. This study demonstrates that ß-receptors and memory recall are tightly
coupled throughout vertebrate evolution, despite differences in neuro-complexity. Future
