Nakashima: Loligo opalescens Embryo Development and Sheath Bacteria
Although no bacteria has yet been isolated and identified from the
intact fingers, V. harveyi B partially explains the SSW finger
anomaly. Sitting in a still sea water solution, the fingers lay prone to
attack from the V. harveyi B. The presence of this bacteria could
partly explain the sterile sea water’s lack, and natural sea water’s
low percentage, of hatchlings. The reason for the difference
separating the SSW and SW hatchling results remains unknown.
Antibiotic Development: Egg fingers placed into the rifampicin-
streptomycin antibiotic treatment began to develop normally (t=18
days in solution), but at an unusually slow rate. At t=26 it appeared
that the visibly young (before Segawa’s stage 9) embryos were
stalled in development. Although a common characteristic of the egg
fingers immersed in the antibiotic, it is unproven whether the slowed
and stalled development is linked to the absence of bacteria, the
antibiotic solution, or both. To answer this unknown more antibiotics
capable of stripping the sheath of its bacteria need to be used. If
different antibiotics (playing the same function of eliminating
bacteria) yield different results, then the antibiotics effect on
development can be monitored. If an array of antibiotics are used
with the same developmental schedule, then it is more likely that it
is the absence of bacteria which is influencing the slowed
development.
The fingers transferred from sterile sea water into the antibiotic
solution every three days displayed differences. The transferred
fingers, all gathered from the same finger cluster, all appeared slow
﻿16
