Results.
Distribution
The distribution of Anthomastus ritterrin Honterey Bay was analuzed
relative to three porometers. I compored the relative densities occording
to geographical location in the bay, according to depth, and according to
habitat type.
Figure 2 illustrotes how Anthanastusure distributed at the five sites
surveged in Honterey Bag. The color morphs of Anthomastus were divided
into two groups: white ones and ones which were colored pink or red.
Anthomestus ritteriexists in shodes from white to pink to red, and anu
individual which was even slightlg pink was counted in the red and pink
category. Anthonsstusreaches its highest density at the Cangon Wall
Heander site where the overall density approached 4.0 Antbamastusper
minute. Also shown in Figure 2 is the fact that white individuals were not
observed at the two northernmost sites while over half of those seen at
the southernmost site were white.
Figure 3 shows the results 1 obtained when 1 studied the distribution
of Anthonastus ritteriby depth. The highest concentration of the species
occurs at about 350m, the concentration drops off rapidly at shallower and
deeper locations.
Densities according to habitat tupe are summarized in Figure 4. The
habitat tupe with the highest density of Antbamastus ritteriwas the
exposed rock face. 2.7 individuals were seen per minute of ROV time on
this tupe of habitat. The sediment cover habitat had the next highest
density with 0.93 individuals per minute, and the rocky slope habitat was
lowest with 0.71 Anthomastusper minute.
