The problem is compounded when the species in question have
microscopic, free swimming larva, or release their gametes directlu
into the water. Both of these cases have a high potential for
migration, even if the adult forms are stationarg. Unfortunatelu, it is
impossible to directlg observe the extent of such migration. An
alternative to direct observation is to studg the large scale population
genetics of a species, and infer gene flow and migration rates from
the genetic data. It is possible to estimate both the extent of
population subdivision and migration from allelic frequencies (Slatkin.
1987) The data gained from biochemical population studies is also
useful in that it allows examination of gene flow on a evolutionaru
time scale, instead of simplg examining present trends. Jeff Hitton.
Carl Berg and Katherine Orr used allozyme data to estimate the extent
of gene flow between different subpopulations of the Caribbean Oueen
conch Strombus giges(Mitton et al, 1989), and B.J. Davis et al used
allelic frequencies to estimate gene flow between Pacific Coast
populations of the fish Gylebius pictus (Davis et al 1981) Both
studies found evidence of high gene flow between subpopulations, with
signiticant but unpredicteble differences in local allele frequencies
he purpose of the present studg was twofold: 1) to examine the
biochemical genetics of a common intertidal barnacle, Tetrsclite
rurescens, and use the genetic data to infer migration patterns and
rates, and 2) to attempt to gain additional insight into the
evolutionary importance of allelic variation by also examining the
biocnemical genetics of a related barnacle species, Semibajanus
