Hueneme, and there were no significent differences in allele
frequencies between these locations (figure 5). Hk, To. and Pam
neterozygotes all displaged a two banded pattern tupical of monomeric
enzymes
lable Il gives the observed and expected heterozugosities, the
inbreeding coefficients, Fst, and Am for each locus. None of the
observed heterozygosities are significantly different from what is
expected under Hardg-weinburg conditions, except for Hk at Hoss
Landing, where there is a significant excess of heterozugotes. The
values for Nm varg considerably between loci, with Pgi, Pgm, and Hk
all giving values between 15 and 25 migrants per generation, but To
giving a value of over 200 migrants per generation. The value for To
13, however, derived from allele frequencies from Horro Bau and Port
Hueneme onlg, while the other estimates are derived from frequencies
from at least three locations. The average values for Nm are 73.2
using all four loci, and 20.2 if To is left out.
Table IIl gives the coefficients of relation for the individuals
sampled at each site. A value of zero indicates no relstionship, and a
value of S would mean the sampled individuals were full sibs.
Although standard errors could not be calculated, ran a computer
Simulation with r√§ndomlg chosen genotupes (expected relationshio
equals zero) and got values ranging from -05 to 01 (average deviation
from zero -03) using 15 individuals and three loci. All of the values
calculated for the sample sites used at least 15 individuals and at
east 3 loci, except for Pacific Grove, which used 40 individuals but
