10
found deeper in the sand due to more favorable moisture conditions
nearer the water table (Hedgpeth, 1957). Another expariment employed
strong artificial lights 14.5 hours per day for two days prior to sam-
pling; dåtå from two sampling periods 34 hours apart (n-5 each time)
revealed over sixty percent of the animals to be located in the lower
two layers at each sampling. The sand in these cores had dried out
(probably due to a slight elevation in temperatures caused whenever'the
artificial lights were activated); an apparent downward migration in
response to dessication and elevated temperatures was indicated.
Findings of extreme patchiness in the beach population meant that
patterns of temporal variation are superimposed on and perhaps often
obscured by the variability in macro- and micro-distribution. Standar-
dizing temporal parameters inherent in the sampling process was critical
for observation and characterization of endogenous temporal variation.
Cores which were processed immediately after removal from the substratum
gave percentage values which did not differ significantly from those ob-
tained when samples were sealed and placed under constant laboratory
conditions for thirty minutes prior to processing; see Table I for data.
An experimental sampling frequency of approximately 34 hours was used
for most of my experiments; sampling more frequently did not greatly
increase resolution of trends in periodic behavior. Figure 1B shows the
results of such a study. The lines shown are drawn through data corre-
sponding to those collected on May 4 & 5 (Figure 14). The curves, when
drawn through data points separated by the same 34-hour interval, show
striking similarities; the other points, while adding scatter, nonethe-
less support the illustrated trends in endogenous vertical migration
activity. Note that the tidal cycle occurs at the same time of night
