TAo
INTHODUCTION
The chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticide DDT and its
metabolites DDD and DDE are widely distributed in the
environment today. DDT residues enter the oceanic en-
vironment through agricultural runoff, rivers, sewage
disposal and settling of airborne particles (Freed, 1970;
Peterle, 1970). DDT residues have a very low solubility
in water and readily absorb to particulate material, es-
pecially organic particles (Odum, et. al., 1969; Peterle,
1970). In contrast, the solubility of DDT residues in
lipids and other organic material is very high (Wurster,
1969). Also, DDT and its metabolites are among the most
persistent of the organochloride pesticides in biological
systems (Macek, 1970). DDT residues are readily acquired
by organisms through direct uptake from water or through
assimilation from food. They become concentrated in
body lipid stores at levels much greater than those of
the environment (Cox, 1971) and there is a biological
magnification of DDT residue concentrations at successive
steps and trophic levels (Woodwell, 1969; Harrison, et.
al., 1970).
The acoumulation of DDT residues by decapod crustaÂ¬
ceans has been reported by Odum, et. al. (1969) and
Dimond, et. al. (1968). The toxic effects of DDT have
