Chromatophore Behavior in 1 resecata. p. 16.
for the mean are shown.
Fig 8a. Rates of concentration and dispersion of chromatophore
pigments in 1. resecata at different times of day. Animals were
dark adapted for 4 hours, observed, then placed on a black
background and illuminated at 40 ft-c. When adaptation for the
black background was completed, animals were transferred to a
white background. The experimnet was done twice at 0600, 1200.
1800, and 2400 hours. Each line represents a mean for 30
animals.
Fig. 8b. Rates of concentration and dispersion of chromatophore
pigments in L resecata at different times of day. Animals were
dark adapted for 4 hours, observed, then placed on a white
background and illuminated at 40 ft-c. When adaptation for the
white background was completed, animals were transferred to a
black background. The experiments was done twice at 0600, 1200.
1800, and 2400 hours. Each line represents a mean for 30
animals.
Fig. 8c. Rates of concentration and dispersion of chromatophore
pigments in 1. resecata after 48 hours of illumination at 40 ft-c.
on a black and on a white substrate. Isopods were placed on
backgrounds opposite to the ones to which they were adapted at
0 minutes. Substratum colors were switched at 90 and 120 minutes.
