Carbohydrases in Armadillidium vulgare and Idothea resecata
ter was added to the homogenized tissue, and the resulting solu-
tion was centrifuged for 60 minutes at 20,000 rpm in a Sorvall
32-B refrigerated centrifuge. The supernatant was removed and in-
cubated at room temperature (22°- 24°C) with equal volumes of the
following substrates in distilled water: soluble starch, sodium
alginate, melibiose, cellobiose, maltose, sucrose, and lactose.
Toluene was added to all of these solutions to prevent the growth
of bacteria. The concentrations of the solutions were such that
approximately one hepatopancreas, 25 ug of maltose, lactose, su¬
crose, melibiose, or cellobiose, or 50 ug of starch or sodium al¬
ginate were used per assay. After periods of 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12
hours, 2 ml samples of the incubating solutions were tested in du¬
plicate for reducing sugars. Enzyme and substrate controls were
also tested at the end of the 12 hour period. Enzyme activity was
expressed as percent hydrolysis, with the maximum or 100% hydroly-
sis taken as a net increase of approximately 12.5 ug for the di¬
saccharides and approximately 50 ug for the polysaccharides starch
and sodium alginate. Although this is an approximate value which
does not take into account the addition of water molecules intro¬
duced through hydrolysis, it seemed accurate enough for purposes
of expressing these enzyme activities. The assays were carried out
at a ph between 4 and 5.
Enzyme activity was detected by the reducing sugar method of
Somogyi (1952) and Nelson (1944) using a Klett-Summerson Photoelec-
