Carbohydrases in Armadilli
hea resecata
DISCUSSION
The presence of a £-fructofuranosidase or invertase is not
conclusively demonstrated since it has been reported by Pigman
(1948) that sucrose can be hydrolyzed by o-glucosidases as well.
The percentages obtained for hydrolysis of the various substrates
reflect only the activity of crude enzyme preparations. Investi¬
gation of ph and temperature optima still need to be carried out.
The absence of melibiases, cellobiases, lactases, and alginases
require further investigation under other assay conditions, par-
ticularly since a B-glucosidase was shown to be present in Arma¬
dillidium by Newcomer (1952). Such an enzyme should have been de¬
tected through the use of cellobiose as a substrate. These assays
did not show cellobiase activity.
Armadillidium vulgare and Idothea resecata which live in two
widely differing environments have so far failed to show any dif-
ferences in the carbohydrases that they possess. This is inter¬
esting since the carbohydrates present in their diets are obvious¬
ly different. Armadillidium vulgare has been reported to eat
mostly dead terrestrial plant material and dead invertebrates
(Paris, 1963). The diet of Idothea resecata has not been fully
characterized, but it has been reported to prefer brown algae over
other kinds of marine food materials (Jones, 1971), and has been
seen to feed on the brown algae, Macrocystis, in particular. An
interesting point is that brown algae contain mannitol, some re-
