While we maintained a 5 second flash interval for all the trials, the effects of the
stimulus on each dendrite were different. Some dendrites displayed a general elevation of
activity (Figs. 3A and B), while some were inhibited compared to control (Figs. 3C and
D). The periodicity of activity in response to stimuli was also different, from -30sec
(Figs. 3A and B) to -15sec (Figs. 3C and 3D). Most importantly, none of the changes
corresponded directly to the timing of each flash. The lack of dependence on the stimuli
is expected because the optic tectum represents a higher order region in the brain. These
results show that timing of a fixed interval stimulus was represented in the optic tectum
in a higher order, more simplified manner. The existence of both excited and inhibited
dendrites further support that neurons representing features matching the stimulus are
excited while neurons that do not match the stimulus are inhibited, allowing synchronous
firing of neurons that represent the stimulus above the background activity.
Another reason for using a light train stimulus was to detect a specific response to
fixed-interval stimuli that represents cognition and expectation of the stimulus. This
response has been recorded in rats (Hurlburt, 1987), cats (Harrison, 1985), and humans
(Takasaka, 1985) at 300 milliseconds following stimulus. Our current setup does not have
enough temporal resolution to resolve activity on this timescale, as the fastest recording is
only two frames per second. As the previously recorded responses came from wide field
electrophysiological techniques, they are unlikely to be reflected in individual dendritic
activity. However, this experiment shows that dendrites also exhibit oscillatory activity,
on a longer timescale, in response to repeated light stimulus. With improved time
resolution, the calcium imaging technique can provide insight into the integrative
