Hahn
Oystercatcher impact on limpets
Bay, adjacent to the hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University.
A single pair of Black Oystercatchers nested at the site indicated
in the spring of 1982. Their defended feeding territory extended
over approximately one half mile of coast. The great majority of
the data presented in this study results from observations on this
pair and their foraging areas over the period April 20 through May
28, 1982. The birds studied were accustomed to human activity,
obviating the need for blinds. Direct observations were made mostly
with a 20X spotting telescope, occasionally with 8 x 30 binoculars.
A portable tape recorder was used to record observations of feeding
activity.
One particular foraging site (henseforth called foraging site 1)
was exceptionally favorable, allowing a clear, close-up view of
foraging birds and the limpet prey under attack. It was possible to
record accurately both the degree of concealment under algae of the
prey, and the angle of the slope to which it was attached. In ad-
dition, this site permitted collection of most of the shells of lim¬
pets consumed, since surf did not wash many away. The site consis¬
ted of two very large rocks side by side which were identical in
terms of exposure to surf, and which supported similar animals and
algae. On a single date (May 10, 1982), the birds were observed
feeding at this site, their behavior was recorded in detail, and
a fairly large number of prey item shells were collected. At a
later date the population of living limpets at this site was sur-
veyed for comparison with the data collected on May 10. In the
interim period, a few more shells of prey were also collected from
the site. To determine the foods available at this site, all lim-
pets on the generally horizontal parts of one rock were counted
