Figures 8 and 9 show electron micrographs of a section through the
olfactory epithelium in a plane normal to the lamellar face. The same
type of cells seen in the dissociated material were also seen in fixed
tissue. A receptor equipped with cilia appears in Figure 8a. Basal
cells appear at the bottom of Figure 9. Figure 8b shows two receptorÂ¬
like cells without cilia, most likely a simple result of the cutting
plane. Although only a small sample size was analyzed, we observed no
receptor cells in slices from the top of the lamellae. All of the
receptor cells were found on the side of one lamellae, facing another
lamellae. This leads to the idea that ciliated cells on top of the
lamellae may serve to move water down between the folds towards the
receptors.
DISCUSSION
Before choosing the rockfish, we compared the size of olfactory
organs in several intertidal fish. Compared to specked sanddabs
(Citharichthys stigmaeus), black surfperch (Embiotica lateralis) and
monkey-faced eel (Cebidichthys viacens), the olfactory rosette in
rockfish was the largest relative to body size. It was discovered that
in sand dabs and eel, the nasal cavity would fill with mucus when the
animal was killed. This made the dissection of these animals
difficult. Because this effect was not observed in rockfish, the
removal of the organ from rockfish was much simpler.
An interesting organization of the olfactory nerve exists which
facilitates extracellular recording. Individual bundles of nerve
fibers appear to directly innervate primarily, and perhaps solely, one
region of the rosette. This arrangement facilitates mapping of the
rosette for responsiveness when recording from one of these bundles.
