and will be useful in further testing of Mozell's (1970) hypothesis
that there exist regions of different specificities on the sensory
epithelium. Further, if such spatial patterning exists, the
correspondence between specific filaments and lamellae may play an
important role in signal processing.
The observed effects of increasing inter-electrode distance on the
time course of the recorded action currents fits well with a hypothesis
that axons in most bundles are of very close, but not identical
diameter. As the distance traveled by the response increases, the
small variation in conduction velocities causes the spike to broaden.
Often, a difference in conduction time between groups of slightly
smaller or larger axons appears as a "shoulder" which is smoothed out
in the broadening peak as distance traveled increases (see Figure 6b).
Several of our results raise the question of whether there are
separable or definable fiber types in olfactory nerve. Certainly, the
appearance of two peaks or of a "shoulder" on some responses suggest
that two classes of axons exist. A variety of waveforms was recorded:
two clear spikes (Figure 5), "shoulders" (Figure 6) and very smooth
shape (Figure 4). This variation suggests that the distribution of
different diameter axons may not be uniform throughout the nerye. In
the cross-section of nerve in Figure 2 and accompanying histogram in
Figure 3, neither distinct spatial segregation nor proof for two
classes of axons can be demonstrated. Additional anatomical
measurement and a larger sample size would be necessary to solve this
point.
Packaging of fibers of larger or smaller diameters in different
Schwann cells could explain the phenomena observed in the two traces of
