Don A. Rogers 5
of light and darkness on movementjunder theseconditions appear
negligible.
The graphs showing the vertical component of movement (Figure 3)
demonstrate that Acmaea scutum moves upward when washed by the
incoming tidedand downward when washed by the outgoing tide. The
light conditions during the period of wash appeam to affect the
distance A. scutum moves. In Figure 3, B, when the incoming wash
was accompanied by sunlight, both the total and the vertical move¬
ments were much less than when the incoming tide was accompanied

by shade. The effects olflight and darkness on the vertical move¬
ments of submerged animals are difficult to evaluate from these
field studies.
Laboratory Studies
To test the correlation of Acmaea scutum movements with the
conditions of tide and light as found in the field, several
laboratory experiments were made. Preliminary studies showed that
when submerged in laboratory aquaria A. scutum generally moves
upward. It was decided to test the effects of light and turbulence
on this movement. Turbulence was chosen as a variablei in addition
to light, because the field studies had indicated that A. scutu
moves most when awash. A 20 inch by 7 inch glass plate was placed
rtically in an 18 inch deep glass cylinder (diam 8 inches).
Light was provided by a 100 watt bulb placed directly above or
directly below the glass cylinder. In all of the experiments aif
esied
was bubbled through the water, but where turbulence was neicaced
two bubblers were placed in the cylinder and the compressed air
flow was increased to the point where the surface of the water was
32
