cell, based on published work. The trunk, gill and eye movements observed in
our studies are all characteristics of M-initated responses in goldfish
(Diamond, 1971.)
The optically activated Mauthner activity produced the same behavior as
that evoked by electrical stimulus. Detwiler (1927) has also demonstrated
that visually-evoked startle responses are mediated by the M-cell in
Amblystoma. This fact was sufficient to show that a "naturally" occuring
stimulus would produce not only the same mechanical behavior but also the
same electrical discharge characteristic of what we identify as M-cell
related.
From observations of antidromic stimulated behavior, it appeared that the
tail flick response was sometimes graded with stimulus strength. The
weaker tail flicks did not correspond in form to that of the naturally occuring
startle response though they were accompanied by an M-spike. Eaton and
Bombardieri (1978) recognized that the Mauthner response is not simply an
explosive and random reflex contraction of the animal's body musclature.
Rather, it is a highly organized motor pattern involving the M-cell and
probably many other neurons as well. Studies conducted by Aljure (1980)
indicate that the gradations result from inhibition onto motorneurons.
Clearly, the ambiquity and speed of behavior renders unaided visual
observation inadequate for adequately document ing M-cell related behavior.
The above behaviors were observed to have a well-def ined threshold
consistent with that of M-cell stimulated behavior in other studies. The
strength-duration curve for tail-flick threshold obtained from orthodromic
stimulation (fig3) indicates that the behavior observed is probably due to
stimulation of a small number of neurons. The sharpness of the curve would
