A shows the protein production of T. californicus in the control condition of
508 instant ocean. Lanes B, C, and D show protein production in lx instant
ocean at 2, 3, and 4 hours respectively. Lanes E, F, and G show protein
production in 2x instant ocean at 2, 3, and 4 hours respectively. Proteins 1
and 2 show the levels of induced hsp 60 and hsp 70. Lanes B, C, and D show
the lowest levels of hsp 60 and hsp 70 throughout the 4 hour time course.
Lane A shows a moderate increase of one hsp 60 and one hsp 70 in 508 instant
ocean. Lanes E, F, and G show maximum production of hsp 60 and hsp 70 at hour
2 that being to decline at hour 3 and 4. Lanes E, F, and G also show
fluctuations of overall protein synthesis, highest at hour 2 in 2x and close
to control levels at hour 4 in 2x.
DISCUSSION
Optimum temperature for heat shock as noted by Lindquist (1) usually
occurs 10-15°C above optimum growth temperature. The temperature for heat
shock in T. californicus was set at 30.1°C, 11.2°C higher than its normal
splash pool temperature of 18.9°C. Shown by the autoradiographs in Figures 1,
2, and 3 heat shock at 30.1°C induced production of three hsps. A
constitutive hsp 60 of 58kD was enhanced under heat shock while a larger hsp
60 of 60KD was dramatically enhanced. This doublet of hsp 60's was confirmed
by Western analysis which showed one fluorescent band in the control and two
in the heat shock condition. At the same time a series of smaller hsp 70's
are produced under heat shock, yet how many hsps was left unresolved due to
the inability of accurate Western analysis. Resolution by 2-D analysis may
elucidate how many hsp 70's are present.
