Introduction
The rocky intertidal ecosystem is a challenging environment for its inhabitants.
Organisms must face breaking waves, desiccation stress, and mobile predators while
submerged and exposed. Most demanding of all are the sudden and extreme changes in
temperature that face the intertidal organism (Newell and Branch 1980). For an animal to
be successful, it must be able to either avoid or tolerate these temperature extremes. An
understanding of how intertidal organisms respond to temperature is crucial as the
prospects of global climate change become a reality. At the cellular level, Stickle et al
(1985) explored increased temperatures with aerial exposure and salinity in terms of
lysosomal stability (as a proxy for heat stress) in intertidal whelks. Tomanek and Somero
(2000, 2002) examined heat shock protein production as a function of thermal stress in
intertidal turban snails. With regard to temperature effects on the ecosystem level,
Largen (1967), Garton and Stickle (1980), and Sanford (2002) examined the effects of
increased water temperature on predation rates of sea stars and whelks. Since intertidal
organisms live in both water and air, it is important to understand how temperature
affects them differently in each. This study investigated how feeding behavior is affected
by temperature stress during aerial exposure at low tide. While Hughes and Dunkin
(1984) and West (1986) have performed behavioral studies on prey selection in intertidal
whelks, very little is known about day to day behavioral changes associated with
temperature stress.
Nucella emarginata is an intertidal predatory whelk that feeds predominately on
barnacles and mussels (Abbott and Haderlie 1980). Predation is an important factor in
many ecosystems, affecting not only prey distribution and abundance, but overall
