ABSTRAC
Squid boats in the Monterey squid fishery utilize Italian lampara nets
that have chains as lead-lines. Two experimental half-purse seine nets are
the other type of gear used (spring, summer 1987). Squid egg cases were
collected and then damaged with the assumption that gear net lead-lines
drag across/through egg masses and potentially cause an increase in squid
egg mortality. Egg cases traumatized mid-way through development
experienced a higher estimated percentage of mortality (EPM) than those
damaged at early or late stages, for low levels of damage (0 and .21 kg).
Misdeveloped embryos occurred most frequently in these mid-stage egg cases,
Higher levels of damage (1.2, 2.1 and 3.0 kg) resulted in significant
increases of EPM for all three stages. Field work included an observation
aboard one of the squid boats that had a half-purse-seine net. Pelagic
organisms were 100 a of this catch, suggesting that this net did not drag
the bottom significantly during this particular set. Variation of
developmental stages within three egg clusters suggests that larger egg
masses may have variation within. Attempts to restrict fishing above egg
masses in mid-stages would be futile because of the mixture of stages
within these egg clusters or egg masses.
INTRODUCTION
Variable squid landings have caused the squid fishery in Monterey Bay
to become an unstable business. The reasons for such fluctuations in
catches per year are difficult to ascertain because little is known about
the market squid's population density and distribution. Hardwick & Spratt
(19/9) correlated 4th quarter sea elevations and corresponding Davidson
currents to low catches the following summer and McInnis & Broenkow (1978)
have shown that high water temperatures may precede high squid landings and
