leave them prone to drifting into an area where eggs die (i.e., beaches) or
where hatchlings could not survive (i.e., extremely shallow or polluted
waters).
The purse seine is another type of fishing net that has been used
effectively to catch market squid, especially in Southern California. It
has been illegal in Monterey Bay because the lampara net has been so
traditional and because of the concern that the purse seine's lead-lines
(made of steel cables) would be detrimental to the egg masses that it may
come in contact with. The setting time for this type of net is less than
that of the lampara and it can be twice as efficient in terms of catch and
stacking time.
Little is known about what actually occurs at the bottom when a
lampara or purse seine net is set. While observations of eggs caught
incidentally suggest that chains have been dragging the bottom, the actual
amount of damage issued is unclear. The half-purse seine spends less time
on the bottom, so it should drag less, but there is currently no evidence
to suggest that it does not come in contact with egg masses,
Simulation of the hypothetical damage that an individual egg case
experiences is difficult because it is such a complicated issue, However,
if a chain or lead-line is being dragged over an egg mass, the damage may
take the form of pressure. This can be simulated by subjecting individual
egg cases to various weights. In this study, egg cases were damaged
individually by rolling a cylinder of different weights along the length of
each case, thereby inflicting varying degrees of pressure upon each case to
test the egg cases level of sensitivity.
