Collison
11
In addition, C. curata seems to be the most resistant to
desiccation, dominating on vertical rocks out of water.
Encrusting corallines are important in forming crusty
pockets around the cucumber, not only providing protection
against wave action, but also holding in water to prevent
desiccation. Corallina, Caliarthron, and Mytilus are im-
portant in this respect too. Many time cucumbers were
observed with the encrusting coralline algae grown over
almost the entire animal. This particular encrusting
feature was only observed in the unprotected pools.
Aggregations of both species were observed in both
protected and unprotected habitats. This is probably due
to brooding and direct development in both species. This
habit is claimed to deter desiccation (Rutherford,1973).
Differences were noted in the body wall of the two species.
C.curata has a thicker, tougher compared to C. pseudocurata.
C. curata also had the ability to contract and firm the
body wall to a greater extent than C. pseudocurata. Con
trolled experiments in desiccation and wave action toler-
ance may help define microhabitatual differences in the
two species.
