Collison
﻿12
Disoussion
Several trends may be established with regard to the
gradient of wave exposure and the distribution of C. curata
and C. pseudocurata in regions of range overlap. C. pseudo
curata dominates completely over C. curata in the protected
pools of the middle intertidal. This is supported by col¬
lections made in large, protected pools of both Pescadero
Point and Yankee Point - Malpaso Creek. These pools are
wide, shallow, and with flat bottoms. They are usually
ten meters or more horizontally from the surf at low tide,
and are raised in vertical relation to the surf. Biolog-
ical associates used for protection from wash are encrusting
coralline algae that lie in a flat sheet on the pool bottom,
and patches of Corallina and Caliarthron. Tetraclita and
Endocladia were often observed rimming the pools. All
ninety-one cucumbers collected within these pools were C.
pseudocurata.
In the lowest levels of the intertidal, where it is
most exposed, it is C. curata that dominates. This is
supported by collections made in front pools and vertical
rock faces at Cypress Point, Pescadero Point, and Yankee
Point - Malpaso Creek. This area is typlified by heavily
washed pools, surge channels, and rock faces. Biological
associates are again Corallina,Caliarthron, and encrusting
corallines. The encrusting corallines are most important
