dorids, the Nat channels continued to be activated, tonic firing would be
expected. Observations of hyperpolarizing and depolarizing effects not
only amongst different autorhythmic cells, but also within individual
cells, illuminate the neurotransmitter-like properties of this peptide.
thus warranting further investigation into its properties and
mechanisms.
Serotonin produced the varied effects not uncommon of a known
neurotransmitter - both hyperpolarizing and depolarizing, depending on
the cell investigated. Depolarization observations such as those in LP1
and LP2 could be explained by noting that high concentrations of
5-HT(S1OuM) act via increasing CAMP production to increase
subthreshold Catt currents near resting potential in Aplysia R15
(Levitan & Levitan, 1988). If this were the case, we would expect that
application of a membrane permeable CAMP analog(CPT-CAMP) would
produce a similar response; after a 30min application, we observed no
effect whatsoever. So it seems that 5-HT acts via another mechanism to
open Catt or other cation channels. Levitan and Levitan continue by
stating that lower concentrations of 5-HT, such as those in the range of
10uM, tend to enhance the amplitude of the interburst hyperpolarization
in the R15 burster, acting via cAMP to increase inward rectification
that they conclude is carried by Kt. The resulting increase in K+
conductance makes K+ currents the predominant determinants of cell
activity, and pushes the resting potential down toward the K+ reversal
potential; this would hyperpolarize the membrane. Lower
