Abstract:
Diopatra ornata is a tube-dwelling polychaete commonly found in sandy subtidal
regions from Mexico to California. Despite their abundance, little information has been
published about D. ornata. This study examined tube construction, locomotion, feeding
habits, and activity patterns of D. ornata, and its ability to regenerate lost or damaged
regions of its body. D. ornata construct elaborate sand and mucus tube caps that are
anchored in the sand and arch over with the aperture -1 cm above the sand and facing
downward. Worms attach pieces of shell and drift kelp to the tube cap and can add on as
much as 6 cm of new tube in one day. The portion of the tube that extends down into the
substratum is more fragile and runs - horizontally at a depth of-10 cm below the surface
of the sand. The worms move up and down inside their tubes using parapodia and can
turn around completely inside it. They can extend their bodies up to approximately 8 cm
from the aperture of the their tube to retrieve food or tube building material, but can
quickly withdraw by sudden muscle contraction. They were never observed to leave their
tubes completely. When foraging, D. ornata sit at the aperture of their tube cap and
undulate their 5 cephalic cirri rapidly. They appear to sense the presence of food nearby
using chemoreception or touch. Time lapse video showed that the worms have distinct
day-night patterns of activity, with feeding or working on the buried portion of their tubes
as the primary diurnal activity, and repair or addition to the tube cap at night.
Regeneration of a head appears to require anterior segments with gills; more posterior
sections of the body died and deteriorated within 2 days. Sections maintained in natural
or artificial tubes (plastic straws) appeared to survive longer, but did not show any signs
