(6)

entire apparatus was placed in a large circulating sea-
water tank with a pump positioned so that a decreasing
current ran down its face. Sand, obtained from Aggassiz
Beach, was dispersed at the pump outlet so that it would
be carried in front of the worms. The current was measured
in meters/second by timing the passage of methylene blue
dyed seawater through a one meter tube, having an inner
diameter of 3.3 centimeters, with its opening at the front of
each surface in question.
The worms were left for 40 hours then removed. Flare
angles were recorded (Fig. 2B). The flares were then re-
moved and the entire apparatus replaced, but with a 180
degree turn so that the colonies were now upside down
relative to their previous position (Fig. 2B). When flares
were again measured the same polar axis was used as in the
first trial. The reason for this was that the major con-
cern was whether the flare was oriented towards or against
the oncoming current. For example, in both cases a flare
measuring greater than O degrees and less than 90 degrees
was directed towards the current. In Trial I it would be
located on the upper left hand side of the tube with the
