DISCUSSION
Much of the data indicate that the slime is amphiphilic.
The initial collection showed that the slime was somewhat
inniscible with the sea water secreted with it. In the
solubility tests, the fact that the slime dissolved more
easily in ethanol (including an active component) than in
distilled water indicates that the slime is slightly
hydrophobic. But it is not entirely hydrophobic, or it
would have been more soluble in acetone, ether, and
benzene.
Washing the pellet (the progressive washes experiment)
indicated that the bioactive component was in both the
pellet and in solution. Sonication made no difference with
this data, so the slime was not slowly being released from
inside a nembrane-bound compartment. More likely the slime
was saturating the water, and the excess was left in the
pellet. This again supports the possibility that the
compound is partially hydrophobic.
Also, a component of the slime(fract 47) seemed to stick
to the gel chromatography column, because its elution
volune exceeded the column volume. This indicates that
this portion has some hydrophobic characteristics.
Also relevant to the amphiphilic character of the sline,
