from linear regression of the calibration) (see Figure
+15). Fraction 47 is beyond the linear separating portion
of the column, so no molecular weight can be assigned to
this fraction.
The gel electrophoresis data shows that both fractions 23
and 47(whose columns show no bands) contain no proteins or
peptides with molecular weights of greater than 2,500
daltons (the lowest molecular weight standard band on the
gel).
Whether the active components are peptides or other small
molecules was not determined. There was conflicting data.
There appear to be many small peptides in the slime; the
crude supernatant of the slime strongly stained with
coomassie blue while after dialysis the retentate stained
weakly if at all. The active fractions 23 and 47 stained
vith coomassie blue more strongly than do the other eluted
fractions. So the fractions either contain peptide or
other compounds which stain coomassie blue.
None of the spectra indicate that the bioactive fractions
are peptides. In the UV/visible spectra, both active
fractions have a peak near 230nm but are lacking peaks at
280nm (Figures #7 and #8). Proteins and peptides
characteristically absorb at both peaks (Pavia, 1979). The
peaks at 260nm, 308nm and 318nm are a mystery. The
16
