tested for bioactivity, and protein concentration. In a
second experiment distilled water was used as the eluent,
and 2.Oml of the supernatant was loaded onto the column.
Spectrophotometer readings were taken of the fractions at
234nm. The regions of peak absorbance were pooled (
fraction numbers 20-27, 28-40, 46-54) and lyophylized down
to solids and then resuspended in 2.0 ml of filtered sea
water. These concentrated fractions were analyzed by
UV/visible spectroscopy, and tested for bioactivity. The
column was calibrated using dinitrophenol (M.W. 185),
aspartane (M.W. 294), bromophenylblue (M.W. 670), vitamin
Bi2(M.W. 1250), aprotinin(M.W. 6,500), cytochrome C(M.W.
12.400), carbonic anhydrase (M.W. 29,000), and blue
dextran(M.W. 2,000,000) (see Figure #15). A 40Oul sample
of each standard was loaded on the column, and the region
of peak UV/visible spectroscopic absorbance was the elution
place. (see Cooper,1977 for explanation of techniques)
Infrared Spectra
Two sets of concentrated fractions (20-27) and (28-40) from
above, were lyophylized again, dissolved in methanol and
filtered to remove salts. The methanol was evaporated off
and the residual solid was made into a Nujol mull to take
the infrared spectrum on a Perkin-Elmer Spectrophotomer
