the anterior end would require a larger degree of turning in order for the
limpet to face away from the intruder before fleeing. Precisely this
behavior was found experimentally - the closer stimulation is to the head,
the greater is the magnitude of the angle turned. When attacked at the
posterior end, the direction of rotation (if desirable at all) would not be
very critical to the survival of the limpet because the starfish is already
behind it. Again, this behavior was found experimentally - nearly all
limpets stimulated 180' opposite to the head fail to turn at all.
While the response to tube feet is fairly stereotypical, certain
differences do exist among limpets stimulated on surfaces with dissimilar
orientations (specifically, horizontal and vertical). Limpets on vertical
surfaces tend to have less intense responses than those probed on horizontal
surfaces. That is, vertical limpets flee less often, extrude their mantle
to a lesser degree more often, and nearly always display a smaller angle of
rotation than do horizontal limpets.
This apparent restraint in the vertical animals may again be adaptive.
Limpets on a vertical surface must have a far greater chance of being
dislodged by gravitational and water current effects if their ability to
grip is significantly decreased, as it must be when they are undergoing the
escape response. Falling exposes limpets to many serious dangers such as
different predators or not landing upright. Some degree of caution in
utilizing the escape response might be valuable for a vertical limpet.
Detecting a starfish at a distance is another important aspect of
Fissurella's behavioral repertoire. "Scent" detection allows the limpet to
prepare itself for a potential attack by extruding the mantle well before
contact occurs. The time for the response to begin is, however, much slower
than for reaction to a tube foot. The limpet, therefore, would not seem to
