Introduction
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are apex predators in an environment
sparsely populated with prey items (Olson and Boggs, 1986). They have evolved
the physiology and anatomy necessary for high rates of digestion, high rates of
growth in somatic and gonadal tissue, high rates of oxygen-debt recovery and
efficient swimming (Brill, 1996; Korsemeyer, 1996). These adaptations,
including a large gill surface area, large blood volume, large amount of red
muscle, and an elevated body temperature (Brill, 1987; Block, 1994), require
large amounts of energy to maintain. Diet is the main source of metabolic
substrates, such as fat, protein, and carbohydrates, for fuel and biosynthetic
precursors (Jobling, pg. 37-38).
Fat is a valuable metabolite for yellowfin tuna who have high energy
expenditures but unreliable prospects for energy consumption, a bioenergetic
situation often described as speculative (Olson and Boggs, 1986). It is rich in
energy, a nutritional requirement and a compact, anhydrous storage molecule
(Jobling, pgs. 10-20, Schmidt-Neilsen, pgs. 178-181, Stryer, pg. 469-472).
It is intuitive that the amount of lipids ingested should be proportionate to
the amount available for absorption, utilization, and storage. Studies on the
stomach contents of commercially netted yellowfin tuna, have shown that fish
constitute a large volume of ingested prey items (Olson and Boggs, 1986;
Maldeniva, 1996). This may overlook seasonal fluctuations in prey species
available given that tuna are general and opportunistic, rather than selective,
feeders (Olson and Boggs, 1986). The percentage of fish found in tuna
