ganglion was placed in a Silgard-plated dish with fresh seawater. The ganglion was then
pinned to the Silgard plate using cactus needles. Most of the seawater was removed from
the dish and 1 mg of non-specific protease (dispase) was applied to the sheath
surrounding the ganglion. A small piece of kimwipe was used to cover the ganglion.
The dish was then encapsulated in a glass container and kept at 4°C in a refrigerator. An
hour later, the kimwipe was removed and the ganglion was washed with freshwater
seawater. The dish was then refilled with fresh seawater and placed back into the
refrigerator. An hour later, the dish was removed from the refrigerator and the seawater
exchanged. The dish was placed onto a Peltier plate held at 12°C. Using micro forceps,
the sheath surrounding the ganglia was removed. Two glass microelectrodes were
prepared and filled with 3M KCl solution. Resistance of the electrodes was between 1-
2MS. A small amount of black ink was applied to the tip of the electrode for
visualization purposes. The two electrodes were then hooked up to a voltage clamp (as
described by Connor and Stevens with minimal modifications). A single cell within the
ganglia was penetrated by both electrodes and clamped at a holding potential near its
observed resting potential and recordings were made using the Clampex 8.0 computer
program while maintaining a 12°C temperature regime. Äfter stimulus was applied, the
Peltier was heated to 30°C with the electrodes remaining in the cell. A temperature of
30°C was maintained within the dish for 30 minutes. The dish was then cooled to 12°C.
The stimulation regime used prior to heat shock was applied again at fifteen-minute time
intervals up to 1.5 hours post heat shock.
