O
0
page 8
directly from the water. Furthermore, it is distinctly possible
that this small degree of C+ uptake from a potential food
source was a result of both uptake from the food itself and
from C which had been released into the water by the labeled
Nitzschia.
DISCUSSION
There are several possible explanations for the variation
in DDE accumulation between large and small Mytilus. This
trend could easily be understood if the lipid content of the
mussels showed a similar decrease with size, but instead an
increase occurs. Much of the lipid in a mussel is stored in its
gonads (Rodegker and Nevenzel 1964), and as the animal grows,
this organ greatly increases in size, extending into the mantle
and surrounding many of the tissues. Shortly before the mussel
spawns, the dry weight of the gonads may be equal to or greater
than that of all the other body tissues combined (Coe and Fox
1942). Fat is deposited in the connective tissues of the gonads,
causing a direct relationship between total fat content and the
size of the reproductive organs. In these experiments it was
noted that the gonads of the larger organisms were very extenÂ¬
sive, and there was no evidence that the animals had recently
spawned thereby lowering their lipid content. One would predict
from the increase in lipid content of larger mussels that they
would take up more C-DDT than the smaller ones. However, this
was not the case.
7
