mysid or Gambusia fry immediately after transfer and then at
intervals of approximately twelve hours; unfed animals were
maintained in the plastic tubs.
Experiments
Free-swimming escape responses to strobe flashes and feeding
sessions of "fed" hatchlings were videotaped from the side of the
tank using a Canon Al videocamera set at 1/250 shutter speed.
Strobe flashes were made with a Nikon Speedlight SB-15 camera
flash. Data were analyzed with a Megavision image analysis system
that can store 28 real-time frames (33 ms per frame) and replay
them in digitized form.
For electrophysiological recordings, an adapted version of a
procedure developed by Ötis and Gilly (1990) was used. Hatchlings
were first anaesthetized in 0.5% urethane, and the dorsal side of the
mantle was glued, with cyanoacrylate cement, to a 30-gauge needle
fitted with Tygon tubing. The animals were suspended in a small
aquarium with seawater and gently bubbling Ö2. The skin and muscle
overlying the left stellate ganglion were surgically removed, and a
polyethylene suction electrode was placed on the interface between
the stellate ganglion and the second-hindmost stellar nerve.
Electric stimulation was applied by two separate electrodes, one to
the pallial nerve and one to the head region of the hatchling.
Behavioral data were recorded by vidoetaping the profile of the
restrained animal with a Canon A1 or LI Hi-8 Camcorder on 1/250
exposure, and data were analyzed by the Megavision. Electrical data
