Introduction
The relationship between oceanic and neritic phytoplankton
production and standing crop has been investigated along the West
Coast of North America (Anderson, 1964, Curl and Small, 1965, and
Malone, 1971) and the long term cycle of phytoplankton occurance
within Monterey Bay has been described by Bolin and Abbott (1961).
Little work has been done, however, on the productivity and stand-
ing crop in extreme nearshore areas, i.e., less than 1000 meters
from shore.
The phytoplankton of the Monterey Bay are subjected to chang-
ing hydrographic conditions at different times of the year, and
these have been characterized by Bolin and Abbott (1961). The
period of upwelling normally begins in February or March as a re-
sult of the prevailing N to NW winds. The winds parallel the coast.
and under the influence of Coreolis force cause an offshore move-
ment of the surface waters. These are replaced by a vertical move-
ment of colder, nutrient rich water from depths of 300-500m. As a
result, the upwelling period is characterized by low surface tempe-
ratures (9.5 to 11.5), high salinities (33.2% to 33.98), and high
nutrient levels (22.0 uM POh-P, 95.0 uM NO,-N, and,10.0 uM SiOa-Si).
These upwelling conditions were present throughout the period of
investigation.
The present study was designed to document the relationships
between primary productivity, standing crop, and community compo-
sition in the Monterey Bay phytoplankton communities along a 15 km
transect reaching from deep water (depth 900m) to the extreme
nearshore (depth 10m).
