and determine: (1) Is release a continuous process, or does
it occur as discrete events; and (2) is there a rhythm dis¬
cernible within the periods of maximum release? The animals
were monitored for ammonia production at half-hour intervals
from noon to 4:00 p.m. In addition, I. resecata was scored
for presence or absence of feces, and P. scaber for sites of
ammonia release. The results, see Figure 9 and Table I,
showed that release occurs as discrete events, within limits
of temporal resolution, and that the events occur randomly.
Despite the randomness of the events, there was a significant
consistency in event rate, both interspecifically and intra¬
specifically. I. resecata had a mean ammonia release rate of
O.737 events/hour with S.D. I 0.17, while P. scaber had the
comparable mean rate of 0.781 events/hour with S.D. I 0.16.
In I. resecata no correlation was found between fecal produc¬
tion and ammonia release, though significant amounts of feces
were produced. In P. scaber, no fecal release was noted, and
release sites were limited to the ventral surfaces of the
head and telson regions.

SCUSSION
As has been previously stated, the primary objectives
in undertaking this study were to investigate the possible
generality of the pattern observed by Wieser (1969) and, by
examining species with contrasting activity patterns, to gain
more information about the hypothesis that ammonia release
is inversely related to locomotory activity. In eight species
belonging to three families of isopods, a pattern of release
