doger S. Kingston
sperimental apparatus consisted of several platinum
cathodes, one silver -- silver chloride anode, a 0.8 volt
.c. power source, a Keithley ammeter of 10-9 ampere sen-
sitivity, and a chart recorder. Cathodes were made by
sealing 26 gauge (BÃ¤s) platinum wire in hand-pulled soft
glass capillaries. The wire was first heated to white
incandesence in a flame to drive off the surface adhering
gases, and the capillary then fused around it. Next the
capillary was cut to extend one millimeter beyond the
polished end of the platinum wire. The recess thus forme
as filled with distilled water and covered with a col-
odion membrane to prevent the entry of proteinaceous
material into the recess.
After construction each cathode was calibrated.
First the interval required for equilibration of oxygen
within and without the electrode's recess was determined
by comparing successive readings from a constant environment.
Next the optimum time duration for voltage application was
sought, this being the shortest interval vielding a linear
amps. vs. /02/ relationship. By comparing the electrode
output at different time intervals in sea water samples of
lifferent oxygen concentrations, the reading at eighteen
seconds was found to be the shortest time yielding such a
linear relationship (rigures 5 and o). In the final
