foot and acidic mucopolysaccharides and carbonic anhydrase from
the mantle edge. These substances were shown to soften the rocks
to allow for excavation by the radula. To date, the only reports
of Platzfrass have been behavioral observations and it could be
that the limpets are excavating their home site depression in
addition to, feeding on the algal material around the home site
which is believed to occur during Platzfrass behavior. This is
further evidenced by the fact that limpets placed on glass plates
in the tide-tank showed a profundity of Platzfrass behavior,
possibly attempting to form the depression of its new home site,
as limpets placed away from their home site are apt to do. The
limpet could use textural clues of the excavated home site in
orienting properly. It may be that C. scabra possess either or
both of these mechanisms for proper orientation. Davis (1895)
suggested that the mantle tentacles could be used in detecting
textural cues associated with the rock; this suggests that
cephalic tentacles aid in proper orientation, but are not
indispensable to it.
The mechanism used in the second type of foraging pattern
where different outbound and return routes are taken by C. scabra
is not well understood. It is most likely that the animal makes
use of clues associated with the rock surface, although those
mechanisms which have been ruled out as primary mechanisms (e.g.,
dead-reckoning or visual clues) could play a role in the ability
of a limpet to home along a different return route. Some
researchers report that mucous trail-following is the only homing
mechanism employed by C. scabra (Hewatt, 1940; Underwood 1979; et
