being absorbed by the sewage, the light available for ab¬
sorbtion by the chlorophyll is reduced. This predicted
drop in productivity is well supported in Figures 2, 3,
and 4.
Although the absorbtion spectra for red, green, and
brown algae are approximately the same, with absorbtion
peaks at 430 and 660 millimicrons, Haxo and Blinks (1950)
found that the action spectra of the red algae is greatly
different than the action spectra of either green or brown
algae. The action spectra of both green and brown algae
approximate the absorbtion spectra, and have peaks at 430
and 660 millimicrons. (Phyllospadix torreyi, which is a
marine flowering plant, contains the same pigments as does
a green alga.) However, in red algae, the water-soluble
phycobilin pigments are much more efficient at absorbing
light than are the chlorophylls; because of this the red
algae utilize light of 570 millimicrons most effectively,
while very little of the light with wavelengths of 430-450
millimicrons is absorbed. The absorbtion spectrum of sew¬
age shows that approximately 30% more light of wavelength
570 millimicrons passes through than does light of 430
millimicrons. Red algae can be predicted, because of this
fact, to be less effected by sewage turbidity than either
green or brown algae. This prediction is supported by
the results obtained in this investigation, using a single
species characteristic of each algal type. Iridaea flaccida
37
