Carlson/Roux-2
MATERIALS AND METHODS
General. Animals were collected from two sites within the rocky
intertidal of Mussel Point, Monterey Bay, California. Site one, a
steep rocky area with a western exposure, was subject to considerable
surge and splash. In contrast, site two had an eastern exposure and
was generally calm.
Populations of 1007 Chthamalus dalli, recognizable in the field by
their wide oval opercular orifices and brown opercular plates (Dr. Eu¬
gene Haderlie, personal communication), were obtained on the shells of
mussels (Mytilus californianus) collected at +3 feet above mean lower
low water (MLLW) from-site one. The mussels were killed and their
tissues removed from their shells and discarded. Populations from site
two were obtained between +3 and +3.5 feet above MLLW by chipping off
approximately 5x5 cm pieces of the granite substratum. These popula¬
tions included a mix of C. dalli and C. fissus, with C. fissus consti-
tuting 80% or more of the populations. C. fissus was easily recogniz¬
able in the field by its characteristic slitlike opercular opening and
grey shell (Haderlie, personal communication). Collections were always
made during low tide. Those animals observed under constant submersion
were put into experimental conditions at approximately the time when
they normally would have been first covered by the incoming tide.
Temperature and changes in light intensity have been shown to in¬
fluence feeding in barnacles (Southward and Crisp, 1961, 1965). These
parameters were therefore kept constant at 13°C and 14 milliEinsteins
respectively, using a Forma Scientific model room-36 temperature con¬
trolled room and self-contained light source. In one study animals
were kept in a Lab-Line incubator with a flourescent light source. The
temperature varied between 11.5 C and 13.5'C for this experiment. Ex¬
cept for the experimental group upon which the effects of reversing the
