Roy Gibbens III
Figure 1 illustrates representative types of verrucae
seen, and shows how they are distributed on the anemone's
column. The large simple verrucae, characterized by
one vesicle, occurred on the proximal 3/4 of the column,
whereas the compound and the small simple verrucae were
seen only on the top 1/4 of the column. All simple ver-
rucae had at the distal tip an off white patch of tissue
distinct from the green pigmentation (located in the
ectoderm: Buchsbaum, 1968) of the surrounding tissue.
Compound verrucae bore such a patch at the tip of each
projecting vesicle of the verruca. The longitudinal
rows of verrucae, characteristic of Anthopleura elegan-
tissima, were delineated by observation and probing with
a dissecting needle. In the clone examined, all anemones
seen had numerous rows of verrucae extending from the
collar, down the column to the pedal disc. Between these
complete rows, all anemones had some rows of verrucae
which started at the collar but at some point at or above
the middle of the column terminated. These observations
are consistent with those of Hand (1955). Data on num-
bers of verrucae per longitudinal row and numbers of
complete rows of verrucae for each of the 8 clonemates
are presented in table 1. It is evident that the number
of verrucae in the longitudinal rows extending the length
of the column is not constant, either within an individual
