(1)
Introduction
Tegula pulligo (Gmelin, 1791) is a common subtidal
snail inhabiting both the rock substrate and Macrocystis
pyrifera (Linnaeus). Lowry, McElroy, and Pearse (1974)
studied the distribution of the six common trochid gas¬
tropods and found T. pulligo to occur predominantly in
deeper water and when associated with Macrocystis to in¬
habit the lower portions of the plant. No mention was
made of changes in the distribution over time. D.E. Hunt
(1977) studied the distribution of Tegula on Macrocystis
over a one year period and reported seasonal differences.
He also documented changes in the position of individual
snails over time periods ranging from one hour to one
month. In this study, T. pulligo was observed and analyzed
for rhythmic activity on a diel basis. The study was done
in the months of April and May in the kelp forest off
Mussel Pt., Ca. (Hopkins Marine Station). A diel vertical
migration was discovered -- snails occupying a higher
position on the kelp plants during periods of dark than
during daylight hours. The extent of this movement and
the actual distribution was found to vary with ocean and
light conditions.
