-11
Rice and Cotsirilos
Discussion—Feeding
Data suggest that algal pieces are the largest particles
acceptable to the five tunicates. However, tentacular clear¬
ance measurements indicate that many particles found in fecal
pellets must have contacted the screen without eliciting
pharyngeal contractions. Among such particles were sand grains
larger than the largest algal fragment ingested by Ascidia. On
the other hand, animals fed sand grains of 0.6 mm cross-section
immediately after ingestion of larger sized algae consistently
rejected these grains. The parameter most likely to prevent in¬
gestion of a grain particleappears to be its mass rather than its
size. This conclusion contradicts a study made by Hecht on Ascidia
atra ( - Ascidia nigra) who claimed "The selection of its food-
if mere exclusion may be called selection-- is made on the basis
of size, and rejection depends on the mechanical stimulation by
the larger particles" (Hecht, 1918). Sand grains dropped
through the water column into the oral apertures were immediately
expelled; particles placed into the siphon would occasionally sit
within the tentacular mesh for several minutes before rejection.
Gravity's effect on a sand grain is considerably more pronounced
than on an algal fragment of comparable size. The disparity in
size acceptance is clearly depicted for Styela in figure 3, which
accepted plant fragments larger but less massive than the largest
rocky material. Algal fragments descended slowly and often were
accelerated by the animal's own intake suction. In the sand
particle study which produced 100% rejection, a grain's velocity
greatly exceeded the oral intake velocity. Impact force of grains
