the inside of the barnacle shell. A pre-bent paper clip,
with a loop at one end and a right angle bend at the other,
was then placed into the epoxied shell and held normal to
the substratum, until the epoxy hardemed enough to maintain
the paper clip in this position (see Figure 1). The length
and width of the barnacle's basal area were then measured to
the nearest millimeter with a ruler. Length here is defined
as the longest line in the area of contact between substrate
and barnacle; width is the largest dimension perpendicular
to length (see Figure 2). For the tests where the substrate
broke, the length and width were measured again after the
specimen was dislodged. These measurements were compared to
the original measurements obtained and if any discrepancies
existed, the latter set of values was used. The bazal area
was assumed to e best approximated by an ellipse and
therefore was calculated using the equation: Orea - T X
(length/2) X (width/2).
Ofter the epoxy had hardened, a recording spring scale
(zimilar to that used by Jones and Demetropoulos, 1968) was
used to determine the force required to remove either the
barnacle, the substratum to which it was attached, the paper
clip, or some combination of rock and barnacle. A carabimer
attached both to the spring scale and through the loop of
the modified paper clip made certain that the sample would
not be lost in the process of removal (see Figure 3). Every
attempt was made to administer a steady pull, although this
was accomplished by hand. Once dislodged, the sample was
