plates broke free from it. In order for this to occur, the
fixation fibres holding the two types of plates together
must be broken. The fracture between the base and the shell
was not always "clean"; often part of one or several of the
shell plates remained attached to the base and consequently,
the fracture split the shell plate itself. In this latter
case, the fixation fibres probably were not broken. This
variability of the severing fracture's location within B.
glandula could contribute to not finding a force versus area
relationship, as different components of the barnacle's
structural system will most likely posses varying breaking
stresses.
Several experimental factors should be considered whem
analyzing this study. First, forces normal to the rocky
substratum were the only ones considered here. Because
waves strike the barnacle from many directions, forces in
other directions, such as parallel to the rock, need to be
also studied.
Second, it is possible that the entire basal area of B.
glandula is not the correct biological parameter to attempt
to relate to force. For instance, a significant
relationship has been demonstrated between the force
required for removal of Balanus balangides and the cement
area present between it's cuticular basal plate and the
slate surface to which it is attached (Yule and Walker,
1784), although the actual cement area is different from the
basal area. Thus, relating basal area to force might be
