II. Field studies on the toxicity of sewage to Pa-
gurus samuelis
The toxicity of sewage under field conditions
over a one month period was determined by placing wire
cages containing P. samuelis at different distances
from the outfall (Fig. 1). A control was placed at the
Hopkins Marine Station on Mussel Point, a locality con-
sidered to be unpolluted.
Cages were constructed of stiff, 4 in, mesh, galvan-
ized wire screen molded into flattened cylinders about
60 cm long, 15 cm wide, and 10 cm high. Twenty-five P.
samuelis collected at Mussel Point were placed in each
cage: 6 large, 14 medium, and 5 small. The small ones
were placed inside a separate envelope of plastic
screening 12 cm by 5 cm. Rocks were added to the cage
for weight. A dead gooseneck barnacle (Pollicipes po-
lymerus) was added to each cage for food at weekly in-
tervals, although Richardson (1965) found these crabs
can live for 30 days without food with only 7.6% mor-
tality. The density if the animals in the cages was
roughly half that calculated by Richardson (1965) to
give less than 20% mortality in 5 days. On 1 May 1970
11 cages were placed at Pt. Pinos in pools where they
were always submerged. All were below a tidal height
of 0.0 feet except cage 4. The cages were wedged un-
der or between rocks in the pools and were not moved
