by wave action.
Cages were examined every other day when tides
permitted; the longest period between successive ob-
servations was 7 days, but this came after the period
when most mortality occurred. The number of dead indi-
viduals in each cage was recorded at each observation.
An individual was considered dead if (a) an empty
shell but no body was found, or (b) the animal showed
no resistance to being removed from its shell and
showed no response to prodding after 10 minutes in
fresh sea water.
The percentage of surviving animals at each ob-
servation is given in Fig. 3. and the time at which
50% mortality (Lethal Time 50) occurred in relation
to distance from the outfall is given in Fig. 2. All
animals died within 9 days in cages within a 100 foot
radius of the outfall, death occurring most rapidly in
cages closest to the outfall. Mortality in cage 6, 110
feet from the outfall, reached 72% in the 28 day ob-
servation period. The remaining cages, including the
control, showed 8 - 16 % mortality in 28 days, which
is approximately the same as in controls maintained in
the laboratory (see below). Cage 11 was destroyed by
children.
A very short LT 50 was found in cage 4, despite
its relatively great distance from the outfall. It was
12
