18
Five large or medium P. samuelis collected in
unpolluted pools at Hopkins Marine Station were placed
in every box at the start of each experiment, and their
positions recorded after one hour. Ten trials were run
with each dilution of each solution, to give 100 in-
dividuals for each test. New crabs were used in each-
trial.
Almost as soon as crabs were placed in the con-
tainers, rapid movement occurred between the two solu-
tions. Only 5% of the animals tested never left their
original boxes. The plastic screen bridge was easily
climbed, but a substantial percentage of animals pre-
ferred to remain on the bridge rather than stay in
either solution. Most movement ceased in 45 minutes.
The percent of individuals in each box and on the
bridge after one hour is given in Table 1. What was
considered important was the ratio of the number of
individuals in the sea water box to those in the test
solution box; this is given for each test in Table 1
and plotted against concentration of solution in Fig. 7.
The experiment did not work with higher con-
centrations of chlorinated Pacific Grove sewage, since
most animals were incapable of climbing the bridge af-
ter 5 minutes in 100%,50%, and 20% concentrations.
Only one of 30 animals tested remained in 10% Pacific
Grove chlorinated sewage after one hour, but no pre-
