area, and only at lower tides would an animal be ex-
posed for prolonged periods to the same sewage solution.
No studies were made of the changes occurring in sew-
age with time other than to note the decrease in chlo-
rine content. In any event, since the composition of
effluent at the outfall probably varies widely depen-
ding on the time of day, it would be difficult to si-
mulate in the laboratory the exact conditions which
animals encounter in the field. Another factor to be
considered is that some areas in the field may receive
concentrated doses of sewage for only short periods of
time, and the effect of this was not tested in the
laboratory.
From the laboratory studies it can be seen that
the rapid mortality rate noted in field cages placed
around the outfall is probably due to chlorine, since
the concentration of sewage without chlorine necessary
to produce the LT 50 found at 60 feet would have to be
greater than 50% (see Figs. 3 & 4). The LT 50 at 60
feet from the outfall (96 hrs.) more closely corre-
sponds with that for 10% chlorinated Pacific Grove
sewage (91 hours) than that of 50% dechlorinated Pac-
ific Grove sewage (212 hrs.). Most components of the
sewage were found to be diluted to 20% or less at 60
feet (Hopkins Marine Station chemical study group,
pers. comm.), and thus mortalities at this distance
