J. Boggs/page 8
This was not observed in medium or high plants for two
more days. Low samples in the higher salinities were
also the first to exhibit pink coloration at the tips.
Higher plants did not turn pink, but became a light
golden or yellow-green. Medium plants displayed a com¬
bination of the characteristics of the other two, the
base turning pink and greening occurring at the tips.
Rates of drying for low, medium and high male/ster-
iles and females are shown in Figs. 4 and 5. To sim¬
plify interpretation, a linear regression was applied
to the linear phases of the curves in Fig. 4, genera-
ting the slopes used to represent initial rates of dry-
ing in Fig. 5. Low male/steriles had a higher initial
drying rate than medium or high male/steriles. Rates
of medium and high male/steriles were similar, but
slightly lower for medium plants. Females, in con¬
trast, dried faster in the higher regions than at me
dium or low levels.
Absorbances at maximum absorbing wavelengths for
the three photopigments are given in Fig. 6. For all
three pigments, male/steriles from high regions showed
lower absorbances than those from medium or low regions.
Medium plants, however, yielded the highest absorbances
