Forte (11)
40-48cm regions, the possibility of adaptation throughout the
length of the blade should not be ruled out. The region O-8cm
from the new sheath is the youngest and fastest growing area of
the Phyllospadix blade and perhaps the most sensitive to changes
in light intensity. The relatively short experimentation period
could account for the failure of the more distant segments to
follow similiar adaptive measures. In anynevent, further
experimentation is necessary before any conclusions can be drawn.
In summary, measurement of photosynthetic rates of epiphytized
samples has revealed lower photosynthetic maxima than found for a
control group of bare Phyllospadix blades. At a limiting light
intensity, samples withwaodense covering of Smithora and with
Melobesia are shown to adapt by both increasing photosynthetic
efficiency and changing chlorophyll a composition similiar to
shade plant behavior. This adaptive mechanism is absent in non-
epiphytized samples. Therefore, the presence of one or both of
the red algal epiphytes, Smithora naiadum and Melobesia mediocris,
results in a restructuring of the adaptive mechanisms of this
seagrass, P. torreyi. The degree of the adaptation differs
depending on the type of epiphyte. Factors leading to this ans
adaptation are not obvious, and further investigations including
seasonal variation studies must be done before a full understanding
of this symbiotic association can be obtained.
