-11- C.M. Eaton
in a downward direction during both rising and falling tides.
during
The tendency to move downwardAthe daytime is proportionally
greater during the receding tides than on the incoming tides.
Only one of the thirteen limpets in the population studied in
detail homed consistently for the entire 45-hour pbservation
period. However, on a large horizontal rock, nine of fifteen
homed consistently for a 48-hour observation period.
Where the red encrusting algae Hildenbrandia and Peyssonelia are
present, Acmaea limatula spends most of its time on these.
The main foods of A. limatula are microscopic algae and the
and coraline
encrusting redAalgae Hildenbrandia, Peyssonelia, Lithophyllum,
and Lithothamnion. The encrusting red alga Petrocelis is
ignored, even though it is relatively abundant in the region
inhabited by the limpet. Non-encrusting forms are not eaten
unless they are very short, growing close to the rock surface.
Although A. limatula and Acmaea pelta may often be founoccu-
pying the same general areas and habitats in the intermediate,
and low intertidal zones of Mussel Point, there is little
interspecific competition for food. A. pelta eats the larger
non-encrusting algae while A. limatula ingests primarily the
encrusting red and coraline algae.
