INTRODUCTION
Several researchers have looked at the question of possible
cuticular water proofing in terrestrial isopods, focusing their
attention on the permeability properties of the integuments of the
arthropods (Edney, 1951, 1954, 1968; Warburg, 1968; Bursell, 1955).
Much of their work has been based on earlier studies and methods
used for investigating the same phenomenon in insect cuticles
(Beament, 1945, 1958, 1959; Wigglesworth, 1945, 1948; Holdgate,
1956; Mead-Briggs, 1956). The work on insects typically shows the
presence of a critical transition temperature at which layers of
waxy, lipid material in the cuticle deteriorate and the permeability
of the integument dramatically increases, as evidenced by increasing
rates of water loss from the animals at higher temperature ranges
(Wigglesworth, 1918). Although such waxy layers have been reported
present in the epicuticle of many of the insect species for which it
was tested, the evidence for such layers in isopods is less conÂ¬
vincing and the results have been subject to several conflicting
interpretations (Bursell, 1955; Edney, 1957). Often the approach
utilized has been to note changes in the rates of water loss in
insects and isopods after lipids present have been removed by
treatment with lipid solvents, but such evidence which only shows
the resulting increase in the rate of transpiration does not seem
substantial enough to credit water-retaining properties of the
animals solely to the presence of lipids in their cuticles.
Only a few observations have been reported on the actual
substructure of the isopod cuticle (Bursell, 1955), although many
