Results
Heat shock proteins with molecular weights 60 KD and 70 KD
were present in Tigriopus californicus under control conditions at
19 degrees and 100% salinity as shown in figures 1 and 2
respectively. Each figure is a developed film of the nitrocellulose
membrane after enhanced chemiluminescence following Western
blotting. In figure 1, the mouse standard containing hsp 60 is
illuminated in lane 4, and protein obtained from Tigriopus
californicus is in lanes 1 through 3. Lanes1, 2, and 3 contain 12.6
ug, 25.2 ug, and 50.2 ug of protein, respectively. The dark bands
directly across from the dark band of the standard indicate the
presence of hsp 60 in the protein sample. Two bands of protein are
visible in lane 1 in which the most protein was loaded. Figure 2
contains a bovine brain standard of hsp 70 in the far right lane.
Protein extracted from Tigriopus californicus is present in lanes 1
through 3. Again, the dark bands across from the standard indicate
the existence of hsp 70 in the protein sample obtained from
Tigriopus californicus under control conditions. A slightly higher
molecular weight protein also reacted with the anti-hsp70 antibody
as displayed by the three lighter marks directly above the dark
bands.
The results of exposing Tigriopus californicus to 30 degrees
Celsius is shown by the five minute exposure film in figure 3. Here,
the standard was loaded in lane 5 and increasing amounts of protein
extracted from Tigriopus under the control condition of 19 degrees
