density is greater, explaining their scarcity but not extinction in the
naturally stressed ecosystems. Nonetheless, since females dominate the
populations under stress, and are the most abundant T. californicus they
were used as the experimental controls for the cleaning reagents.
Cleaning Reagents:
SLIK-A-WAY was the most toxic reagent tested (0.001ml with or
without ig crude killed the entire sample overnight). Next were Corexit
9550, 9527 and Nutri-Bio; 0.001ml of the solutions killed all the samples
by the fourth day (one day sooner than ig crude). Nokomis was slightly
less toxic followed by Corexit 9580 (when it did not disrupt oxygen
exchange) then Corexit 7664.
Corexit 7664 had the lowest toxicity to T. californicus. Past studles
have shown that it has had small negative effects on copepods (Venezia
and Fossato 1977). Verily, O.3ml Corexit 7664 by itself was mildly toxic,
killing all the samples within 12 days. The hypothesis that there is a
positive synergistic effect between Corexit 7664 and crude ofl
(Elgershuizen and De Krui jf, 1976) was false only in the experiment with
O.Sml crude oil and 0.3ml Corexit 7664, since this sample died overnight
and O.Sml crude usually takes 4 days to kill T californicus Otherwise,
O.Jml Corexit 7664 prolonged the life of the Ig crude samples from 5 to
15 days and the sample with a 3 gram tar ball from 7 to 11 days.
Interestingly, the sample with ig mineral ofl and 0.3ml Corexit 7664 also
died on the 15th day, indicating that it may not be the toxins in the crude
