P. Todd Bulkley
cracked severely from margin to apex, new nacreous material
had been laid down over much of the interior of the shell,
binding the pieces into a solid unit. In some cases quite
extensive damage of this sort has been repaired (Plate 1, C).
Four of the shells each contained a small hole from 1.5 to
3.5 mm in diameter. Although the cause of these holes is
unknown, they appear too irregular in outline to be the work
of predatory boring snails. The holes had been covered over
on the interior with new nacreous material.
Two of the shells of A. digitalis, one of A. limatula
and one of A. scabra had been very severely eroded by a fungus
growing in the shell (Plate 1, D). The erosion was heaviest
at the apex and extended down the sides to varying degrees.
The surface of these shells was much softer than that of
normal shells and had a spongy appearance when viewed under
the dissecting microscope. Bonar (1936) reported finding an
ascomycete, Didymella conchae, in the shells of Acmaea, and
noted that among A. digitalis uninfected shells are actually
rare. Examination of populations of A. digitalis bore this
out, but only in unusual cases was the damage particularly
noticeable. One A. digitalis shell was found with one large
and several small barnacles, Balanus glandula, living on it.
