MATERIALS AND METHODS: The beach investigated was Del Monte
beach, protected on the west by the Monterey Harbor and break-
water while open on the east to Monterey Bay. This beach is
subjected to a gradient of wave conditions and should provide
a gradient of other physical parameters related to wave action
and of interest to this study.
At seven locations within a two mile stretch of beach,
transects were set perpendicular to the water's edge. Cores
were taken every ten feet to determine the appearance and
depth of the sulfide layer. At several intervals along these
transects sand samples were taken both in and directly above
the sulfide layer for later analysis of meiofauna concentration,
organic content, and particle size. Organic content of the
sand was determined using a wet chromate oxidation method a¬
dapted from Strickland and Parsons (1968). Particle size was
determined using a dry sifting technique with a series of
Tyler screens.
Extraction of meiofauna was accomplished using a modified
technique of Gray (1971). 500 milliliters of sand were washed
five times with approximately 750 ml of 6% MgClo solution,
followed by two rinses with 750 ml of 60°C seawater. Counts
were converted to organisms per liter of sand. Meiofaunal
contributions from the seawater were found to be negligible.
The method proved to yield 90% of the animals obtained by ex¬
haustive extraction.
