in Figure 6.
DISCUSSION
Inhibition of photosynthesis in marine phytoplankton
communities becomes detectable at a concentration of 10
ppb, is reduced to 50% of the normal at 500 ppb., and at
1000 ppb. is reduced by 95%, as shown in Figure 1 and Table
I. Correspondingly, a very marked increase in the rate of
respiration occurs, the increase being greater at lower
concentrations than higher ones, being observable even at
a DDT concentration of 1 ppb. Figure 4 shows clearly that
the rate of photosynthesis/unit chlorophyll A also de-
creases over a period of lengthy exposure to DDT at various
concentrations. In exponentially growing cultures, the
synthesis of chlorophyll A is retarded, however, the degree
of retardation as a function of DDT concentration is not
clear as evident in Figure 5. DDE, the most common analog
of DDT in the environment, inhibits photosynthesis at a
much faster rate than DDT. Figure 6 shows that it has a
measurable effect at a concentration of 1 ppb, whereas DDT
does not, and its inhibitory capability seems almost three
times as great as that of DDT.
The results show that DDT does affect the actual photo¬
synthetic process rather than merely slowing the entire or¬
ganism down, as shown in Figures 1 & 4, and suggests that
the synthesis of chlorophyll A is also inhibited in some man¬
ner, as shown in Figure 5, in the presence of DDT. One ex¬
