channels from going to the closed state from the inactive state (Na¬
channels need a huperpolarized voltage to go the the closed state from the
inactive state). Having more Nat channels in the inactive state would
prevent an action potential from acheiving maximum height. Also, the
absence of the huperpolarization mag have the same etfect.
The addition of the combination of TEA solution and Ca2*-frée Coz*
solution produced an interesting effect in beating cells. The cell seems to
be in an unstable equilibrium between two states: the resting state and a
state approximatelu 40 mV above the resting state. The resting state can
be explained bu the permeability of the membrane to potassium ions.
Although TEA blocks some Kt channels, mang K* channels necessarg for the
maintenance of the resting potential are not effected by TEA. Also, in the
combination solution used in this case, the TEA has been diluted bg Lazr¬
free and ASW solutions. The state in which the cell is at a potential 40
my above resting can be explained by the opening of Ca2* channels. This is
unexpected since the presence of Ca2t-free Co would be expected to block
Ca2t channels. However, the fact that the resistance of the cell at the 40
my above resting state is verg low compared to the resistance at resting
shows that this effect cannot be caused solely by a decrease in K
conductance. An increase in Nat conductance would explain this
phenomenon except that voltage gated Nat channels would be expected to
inactivate instead of staging open so long. Therefore, this second state
seems to be explained best by a state achieved by the equilibrium of the
conductances of both Kt channels and Ca2* channels, both of which have
been decreased by TEA and Ca2+-free Co.
