Since the cell originally was a beater, resting potential is inherentig
unstable. Slow inward current or B current probablg depolarizes the cell
past threshold voltage. The first two spikes can be attributed to Na“
current and inactivation. However, since voltage dependent K* current is
inhibited to an extent by TEA, the voltage does not return to resting
potential but reaches this second state where the equilibrium is dependent
on a balance between Ca2t and Kt current. At this point, Na“ current is
blocked since the Nat channels are trapped in the inactive state by the
depolarization. This second state is not stable since the voltage has been
observed to decrease steadily. This decrease can be explained by factors
such as the Nat/Kt pump, slow Ca2* current inactivation, and an increase
in Ca2t dependent K* current as Ca2* concentration rises in the cells. As
voltage decreases, more and more Na“ channels are transferred from the
inactive to the closed state. Since voltage is above threshold at this
stage, these Nat channels open and close causing fluctuations that
increase in amplitude as voltage decreases. During this time, Cazt current
continues to inactivate until Kt current overwhelms it and brings it back
to resting potential. B current brings the voltage back to threshold again
causing the cycle to repeat.
The time spent in the second state is longer than the 300 ms that the
cell is above restinq potential when it is in a TEA solution. This indicates
that some other factor besides the decrease in K* current and the
inactivation of Ca2t current is involved in the cell remaining in the
second state. It may be that Co2t has an effect of leaving some Ca¬
channels open longer or blocking a different subset of K* channels than
TEA does, although both of these hypotheses are speculation.
