of space, or a dominance pattern in which animals hold a ranking
relative to one another but move in common space." Manning (17/2)
states that a dominance hierarchy "relates not to a fixed area,
but to a rank order of individuals living in a common area." But
the findings in this study suggest that a dominance hierarchy and
territoriality can exist in the same population. Again, the
territoriality shown here is not rigid and is certainly a
secondary structure to the dominance hierarchy, but the two types
of organitation seem to be interacting in this situation.
It's tempting to project the results found here to the
species in its natural environment, but it's entirely possible
that the affect of crowding in the laboratory is so great that any
social structure found in the lab is a response to the artiticial
conditions and not a typical pattern at all. The population
density of O. rubescens in the wild is not known; it may be so low
that the animals never interact enough to create a need for
territories or even heirarchies. Research in the field is clearly
needed.
Ihe color patterns observed during the study were not well
quantified, but the fact that patterns occurred that did not fit
the cataloqued repertoire of patterns is significant. It appears
that some of the body patterns displayed by the species have not
yet been described, and that even those that have been described
are not as sterectypical as might be believed. The lack of the
systematic color change sequence described by Warren et al.(1774)
in at least a few individuals of Octopus rubescens casts doubt on
1
