Behavioral observations showed that as oxygen tension
decreased, the length of the tentacles increased, but once
anaerobic conditions were established the tentacles coiled
tightly. After twenty-four hours in the sixteen ounce jars
in an anaerobic regime, animals moved out of the substrate
and lay in an elongate form on the surface. As the body can
respire at normal rates without tentacles (Gladfelter, 1968)
this may be a behavioral mechanism for utilizing any trace
oxygen.
Upon removal from anaerobic regimes of twenty-four hours
duration or less, burrowing began within a few hours. After
thirty-six hours of anaerobiosis recovery to a burrowing be-
havior requires one to two days. Worms under anaerobiosis
for forty-eight hours were moribund, with a few individuals
burrowing after a recovery period of three days. Many worms
from forty-eight hour anaerobic regimes, however, died after
exhibiting movement for three days.
The biological advantages arising from the ability to
tolerate anaerobic conditions would appear to be limited to
approximately twenty-four hours or less. Periods of longer
duration leave the animal in such a moribund state that en-
vironmental activity such as wave or current action would
disintegrate the animal before recovery from the effects of
anoxia.
Tests for total carbohydrate changes during anaerobiosis
over a forty-eight hour period were inconclusive. Variance
within the populations tested was extreme, and ranged from
697 micrograms of carbohydrate per gram dry wieght to 22,456
Agm per gram dry weight. Total carbohydrate appears to be
o.97% of the dry weight. Difficulty in establishing con-
sistent standard curves casts some doubts on the validity of
the method of preparation. The possibility that carbohydrate
metabolism is not utilized as a msjor pathway must be con-
sidered until metabolic end products are determined. Both
