the investigation showed that oxygen levels could vary
substantially in one pool - the extreme example being Tidepool 1,
a horseshoe-shaped pool which showed a gradient from 5.3 ppm at
one end to 7.2 ppm at the other at 3:00 pm on a sunny day.
Gradients present in pools on a much smaller scale, say along a
transect beginning at an algal frond and extending
perpendicularly outward, could not be detected with the Model 54
oxygen meter, as the probe had to be continuously moved to
complete a measurement. A study on microzonation of oxygen levels
within tidepools using a more precise technique of measurement
could lead to the determination of contours of oxygen
concentrations in tidepools. The Model 54 meter was also
inadequate for this investigation because the maximum oxygen
level it could measure was 20 ppm, a value regularly exceeded in
my tidepools.
Other assumptions of the model which may affect its accuracy
include the assumptions that oxygen depletion and addition rates
are similar among the different groups of organisms analyzed. The
model could benefit from a species by species analysis of oxygen
depletion and addition as well as a more precise field method of
biomass estimation.
The model in its present form does not account for seasonal
or geographic variations in such parameters as solar irradiance
and temperature, and this renders it very specific to the
Monterey Bay area. Field investigations conducted at various
locations during various seasons could provide a more accurate
view of tidepool oxygen dynamics. Additionally, much more testing
is necessary before this model can be deemed accurate. More
18
