Aquarium Systems aquarium heater, I heated one tank to 25°C to
measure temperature effects on the oxygen consumption rate of
healthy algae. One aquarium was left empty as a control for
microbial influence upon oxygen levels, pH, and salinity. The
invertebrate tank was covered with a screen mesh to prevent the
animals from escaping. After the different samples were placed in
their aquaria, readings and samples were taken every three hours
for twelve hours (the algae tanks were sampled every four hours
for twelve hours). From these data I determined instantaneous
oxygen depletion rate per ambient oxygen level for fish,
invertebrates, algae at 25°C, algae at 15°C, necrotic algae, and
microorganisms [in umole 0 / (g biomass X hr. X ppm ambient o,))
(See Appendix 1).
Experiments were also carried out to determine rates of
oxygen addition by algae. These experiments were begun at 12
noon, so that oxygen addition rates obtained represented those at
maximum solar irradiance, which occurs at about 1 pm. About 1 kg
of healthy algae was collected in the manner described above.
Four aquaria were then prepared: one for direct sunlight exposure
and three for gradations of diffuse sunlight exposure. The
interiors of the aquaria were lined with black plastic to mimic
tidepool conditions. Without taking this precaution the aquaria
would receive radiant input from the sides as well as the top, a
situation that does not occur in tidepools. Two of the aquaria
were lined with the plastic to the 20 liter waterline. One of
these was placed in direct sunlight and one in a fully shaded
area to mimic the diffuse sunlight a trench tidepool would
