INTRODUCTION
The tidepool is an interesting ecosystem to model because
physico-chemical parameters such as dissolved oxygen or
temperature display much greater diurnal fluctuation there
compared to variation seen in the ocean (See Figs. 1 & 2).
Temperatures in these pools at low tide during the day reach
levels never experienced in the ocean the whole year round, and
this limits the number of species that may exist there. For
instance, two species of tidepool cottids, Clinocottus globiceps
and Oligocottus maculosis, have upper temperature limits of 26°c,
and so they are only found in tidepools on the Pacific coast from
San Francisco northward, as temperatures in Monterey Bay
tidepools exceed this threshold (See Fig. 2). The cottid
Oligocottus snyderi resides in pools at Hopkins Marine Station,
and has an upper temperature limit of 30°C (Morris, 1960), well
above the maximum level recorded during a sunny day in June (Fig,
2).
While temperature can limit the number of species in
tidepools during the day, dissolved oxygen levels may limit the
number of species at night, when algae becomes a consumer
of oxygen instead of a producer. As Fig. 1 shows, oxygen levels
may dip to near zero in a tidepool by dawn, and fish cannot
survive at zero oxygen for long. Fig. 1 also demonstrates that
oxygen levels vary significantly from pool to pool, and that they
may decrease even during the day. It appears from this natural
variation that a number of factors determine ambient oxygen
