haul-out by the rising tide (Riedman 1990), and (2) there
does not seem to be a significant rise in general aquatic
activity at higher tides, though there are much fewer seals
on the haul-out. Therefore, it would seem that many seals
leave the area altogether at high tide.
There are several biases introduced by the methods of
this study. While not likely causing a disturbance in the
general postural and site characteristics of the behavior.
my presence as a foreign observer of the seals probably did
interfere in the accuracy of measurements of sleep duration
and in the alternating surface/substrate patterns. In
addition, I am sure that I simply did not notice a
signiticant amount of sleep activity because the surf grass
provided such excellent camouflage. There were instances
when I lost track of the location of a sleeping seal, even
though I had seen it just a moment before, because of the
constant motion of the grass. Finally, my study focused
only on the underwater portion of sleep behavior. The
results should be combined with observations from land that
follow the seal as it floats and sinks in the water. In
this manner a more accurate portrayal of the in-water
sleeping abilities of the harbor seal can be compiled.
