only prominent during May and June. Similarly, I observed
rumbling behavior primarily during May and the beginning of
June. For a review of pinniped vocalizations, refer to
Riedman (1790).
Given that these studies took place during the breeding
season for this species, it is possible that this behavior
is a form of lekking. Bradbury (1981) defines a lek species
as one in which 1) males contribute only gametes to the
next generation; 2) males gather at a site to which females
come and where most mating occurs; 3) this display site
contains no resources found exclusively at the site and
necessary to the females, except for the males themselves:
and 4) the females have a choice of mates. Lek behavior has
already been suggested for another pinniped, the walrus.
Udcbenus rosmarus. The male walrus exhibits acoustical and
visual displays in the water near groups of females,
subadulte, and young resting on the pack ice during their
breeding season (Ray and Watkins 1975). The authors also
suggest that the display may be a means of establishing
underwater territories or dominance hierarchies.
The
amecdotal evidence found in my studies regarding
interactions between vocalizers and attendants might
indicate that the harbor seal rumbling behavior is a
competitive yet nen-violent means of creating a male
hierarthy amongst the seals which vocalize, are attended, or
are attendants.
15
