1.8 g. and their average length was 5.7 cm. Incubations
were run for 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 9, 14, 18, 24 and 36 hours;
four fish were used in each incubation. At the end of
each experiment the four fish were removed from the jars
and killed. The skin, gills, brain, liver, gut (stomach
and intestines) and muscle were then removed and weighed.
Skin samples were patches (approximately 1.5 cm") taken
from the region posterior to the pectoral fin on both the
"dorsal" and"ventral" surfaces. Muscle samples used were
from the area exposed by removal of skin patches. Whole
organ samples were used for brain, liver, gut and gills.
After weighing, tissues were homogenized with a test tube
mortar and motorized teflon pestle in 2 mls. of N.N-di-
methylformamide. An additional 2 mls. of DMF was used to
wash the mortar and pestle. Two washings with 95% ethanol
ensured complete cleaning of dissection tools and homog-
enization equipment between each tissue sample (periodic
checks of these washes showed no significant scintillation
activity above background). The 4 ml. of DMF and tissue
homogenate mixture were poured into a 20 ml. scintillation
vials and 10 mls. of toluene scintillation fluid (4 g. PPO
and 100 mg. POPOP/liter) was added. The samples were
counted in a Nuclear-Chicago Unilux II, two-channel scin-
tillation counter. CDDT concentrations in ppb were
calculated for each tissue from C disintegrations per
