-7-
major factor in determing how much ammonia L. planaxis
excretes. However, in the absence of light and dark cues,
the tidal correlations become more apparent. In Figure 1,
this combined diel/tidal cycle is most obvious; since
snails were collected from the field at every test point,
they were subject to normal environmental conditions until
just prior to testing, i.e., they experienced up to seven
hours between times of maximum moisture at the high tides.
The amounts of excreted ammonia decrease after sunrise,
and the final amount at 0900 parallels the amount found at
the same time on the previous day. This may indicate that
uniformly low levels of ammonia are excreted during the
morning hours; the possibility also exists that the snails
collected at this time, which coincided with high tide,
had already excreted on the rising tide or just prior to
the peak of the tide.
In contrast, the groups of snails which were immersed
every three hours excreted larger amounts of ammonia on
the second morning, Figures 2 and 3. In all cases, however
the snails excreted less on the third morning, after twen¬
ty hours of dryness. Moisture does seem to stimulate the
snails to excrete. All individuals exhibit a diurnal pat¬
tern of excretion; excretory activity increases after
sunset and decreases after sunrise. Whether the absense
of tidal correlations is due to periodic immersion or to
the coincidence of evening with the high tide cannot be
determined; repeated studies during as evening low tide
