for Cliona (Figure 7). The slope of the line is similar
indicating a similar reduction in breaking strengh of the
shell strips as a function of percent infection by Cliona.
Figure 8 shows the results of these tests applied to strips
of shell bored by Penitella. Here, though the correlation be¬
tween number of Penitella per shell and breaking strength
does exist, it shows a low slope and a good deal of scatter.
Measuring the density of shell strips revealed a strong
correlation between density and infection. In a shell with
minimal damage by borers the density was 2.78 gms/cm while
another with extensive damage by Cliona had a density of 1.49
gms/cm’. When the force required to break strips was plotted
against shell density there is a very good positive correla¬
tion. Shell of maximal density requires 758 greater force
than those which have been heavily bored and are about 653
of normal density.
DISCUSSION
There exists a good correlation between the damage done
by shell borers and the strength of abalone shells. These
differ between the pholad and sponge since the pholad pro¬
duces localized points of weakness and the sponge progressively
spreads and deteriorates the shell with time. The older
larger shells often have sustained massive damage and offer
little protection to the abalone. There can be little
question that this damage can make them more susceptible to
