Figure 2
Figure 3
Figure 4
Distribution of Penitella conradi in abalones in California.
The same rules apply for this graph as the previous on, and
the legend should be followed identically. The y-axis is
however on a different scale; instead of figuring out the
percentage bored by Penitella conradi, the actual number of
Penitella on the shell was considered. There is a correction
to be made as all three specimens of Haliotis fulgens (Green)
which are indicated to have twenty Penitella per shell
actually had 27, 32, and 45 Penitella respectively for each
of the three shells.
First strength experiment using a force from the top. The
strength of the shell was estimated by applying pressure to
the convex surface while the shell was resting on a balance.
The force at the break point was recorded. Each shell had a
specific noted state of infection and one could test for a
correlation. The force applied was in pounds per centimeter
squared.
First strength test with Cliona. A graph to show force
applied to shells versus the infection by Cliona celata. The
percent surface area bored by the Cliona celata is different
for each shell. Haliotis rufescens is used in this test, which
is described in Figure 3.
