Levin p. 3
INTRODUCTION
Littorina planaxis, a gastropod snail, common to
the upper intertidal regions of rocky coastal areas, is
most often found with its operculum closed and attached
to the rocks with a mucus seal. If a snail is dislodged
from the rocks and placed into sea water it begins an
extruding response, moving its operoulum away from the
mouth of the shell and gradually extending its foot and
tentacles. The extruding response consists of two parts.
Stage one is a movement from a closed position to one
where tentacles are exposed. Movement stops momentarily
and the snail may reclose, or may continue with full ex¬
trusion of the foot, head, and tentacles. If a snail is
dislodged and placed into distilled water, no stage one
response occurs. Littorina planaxis must have some mech¬
anism that can determine certain properties of the sur¬
rounding water while the snail is drawn into its shell.
The purpose of this research was to characterize this
response and to localize the region of detection. Results
suggest thatasnail detects primarily chloride concentra¬
tion.
MATERIALS
Littorina planaxis was collected from the rocks at
the Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University in
Pacific Grove, California. Snails were either placed
into distilled water or left to desiccate in dry wooden
