Introduction:
Mandelbrot (1967, 1982) pioneered the use of fractals as an
alternative to euclidian geometry in describing the world. For a
fractal object, in contrast to a euclidian object, the perceived
length or area of that object increases as the unit of measurement
decreases. The rate of increase is determined by the fractal
dimension according to the equation L(s)-Ks (1-D) where L is the
length measured at a scale s, K is a constant, and D is the fractal
dimension. Fractal dimensions have been determined for habitat
space such as lichens (Shorrocks et al, 1991), vegetation (Morse et
al, 1985) and algae (Gee and Warwick, 1994). Fractals describe the
complexity of the substrate, and therefore how much habitat is
available at a given scale. The higher the fractal dimension
measured at a given scale, the higher the expected density of
animals of that body size that could be supported.
Gee and Warwick (1994) found a relationship between the
fractal dimensions of macroalgae and the diversity and structure of
their epifaunal populations. They measured the fractal dimensions
of 4 intertidal algae found on the Isles of Scilly, off of the
coast of Britain. They found a higher density of animals on plants
with higher fractal dimensions. However, as they noted, they only
used one frond to measure the fractal dimension of a species of
alga, and took that frond to be representative of all individuals.
They then used that dimension for their inter-species comparison.
The fractal dimension measured may have been non-representative of
the population of individuals sampled, and therefore could have
