the surrounding algae, which could provide a more moist
environment.
Fractal dimension is a way of describing habitat complexity
independent of substrate type. Studies could be done placing
artificial substrates of known fractal dimensions in the intertidal
and examining colonization to see if the resulting densities
resemble densities found on substrate naturally found in the
intertidal. This is a way of answering the question of the
importance of substrate type. To supplement this type of research,
comparisons could be made between different substrates of similar
fractal dimensions to see whether animal abundances are similar,
If abundances are similar, then an area of study may be opened
wherein different communities and even ecosystems can be compared
through their fractal dimensions.
A cause and effect relationship between fractal dimension and
animal abundance still has not been demonstrated. Maybe the
fractal dimension of algae or other substrates in the field can be
changed and the animal abundances observed to see if they respond
as expected to this change in fractal dimension. The difficulty of
a study like this is that it is impossible to change fractal
dimension without changing all of the factors that depend on
fractal dimension. Therefore it would be interesting to discover
what effect fractal dimension has on factors that comprise a
suitable habitat such as temperature, humidity, water retention.
The relationship I have found between the fractal dimension of
M. papillatus and its snail abundances is preliminary, and only
