between 0 and 1 meter, the remainder from between 1 and 2 meters
Each alga was placed in a separate container and taken back to the
lab for analysis. The macroscopic animals were hand picked from
each specimen, and their numbers and sizes were recorded. Each
alga was blotted with paper towels and weighed to the nearest 0.O1
g. The number of 1 to 3 mm Littorina scutulata and Tricolia
pulloides inhabiting each alga were counted. Their combined
density was measured in terms of number of snails per 7 grams of
algae. Seven grams was chosen as the normalization mass because it
approximated the mean mass of the samples. Some samples taken were
much smaller than 7 grams, with a few as low as 0.8 grams. These
samples had be multiplied by a factor greater than 7 to determine
a normalized snail density. This multiplication enlarged any error
associated with sampling, and it was decided that snail densities
associated with samples weighing less than 1.75 grams were
unreliable. The analysis was carried out both with and without
these suspect samples.
To determine the fractal dimension of M. papillatus, a high
contrast, black and white slide was taken of each individual. The
alga was spread so that individual fronds would be visible, yet
were allowed to maintain their 3-dimensional form. This was done
so that the relative "bushiness" of the samples would be observed
in the slides. Some samples lay flat, while others crossed over
themselves in a more complex fashion.
These slides were projected onto paper, and an outline of the
projected alga traced. This tracing was digitized and fed into a
