-4-
samples were used in the determination. To collect the
feces, the worms were starved in sea water for 3-6 hours,
then placed in a substrate from one of the three areas and
left to feed overnight (14-20 hours) in a tank with
running sea water. Afterwards the worms were hand washed
and put overnight in filtered sea water in finger bowls
surrounded by running sea water with a temperature of about
15Â° C. The feces were collected from the water by
centrifugation and washed thoroughly with distilled water
and oven-dried to constant weight. Approximately 1 gram
samples were in the determinations. The same substrates
were used for each run and kept in a freezer when not being
used.
Results:
Dissections of fresh worms showed that the gut often
contained sand grains covered with mucus. Occasionally
sand particles as large as 1 mm in diameter were found. In
all the dissections the sand was found in the latter third
of the gut, even though the dissections were done from five
minutes after the worms were in the substrate and then at
hour intervals over a period of six hours; no visible
material was found in the anterior portions of the gut.
Worms that had been feeding in enriched glass beads displayed
the same phenomenon of one or two clumps of glass beads
with mucus in the hind gut. Jones (1968) also observed that
food material passes quite rapidly through the anterior
regions of the gut in the polychaete Magelona sp..
