Page 8
of regeneration. Essentially all of the Cannery specimens were whole
and undamaged. It was also found that the color of the stars at Pt.
Pinos would match that of the substrate up to eighty percent of the
time. Those at the Cannery were many bright shades, and not cryptic
with respect to their background.
Measurements were made of the percent of each quadrat area usable
as shelter. Figure 1 shows this percentage, plotted against the num¬
ber of animals per quadrat for fifty randomly placed quadrats in the
zone inhabited by Leptasterias at Pt. Pinos. The number of animals
can be seen to increase linearly with increasing available shelter,
with a positive slope of 0.678. There is some scatter, but the line
obtained from a least-squares linear regression analysis is signif¬
icant (p.001).
Similar measurements were obtained from the quadrats placed at
Mussel Point, where the mean shelter per quadrat was approximately
twenty percent.
Feeding
Figure 2 shows that at Pt. Pinos the small gastropod Barleeia
haliotiphila is the preferred prey item, in terms of total number of
prey items observed in that area, comprising 53 percent of the diet.
Tricolia pulloides, another small gastropod, ranks second, comprising
21 percent. In none of the feeding observations was the snail in its
shell swallowed, in fact in some cases up to three or four Barleeia
would be digested simultaneously outside the body. Other important
prey items included Bittium eschrichtii, seven percent, Tegula fune¬
