Begle Page 5
atives other than the two main turf algae are Iridaea flaccida, Pel¬
vetia fastigiata, Fucus distichus, Gigartina canaliculata, and Egreg-
ia menziesii.
Mussel Point Situated inside Monterey Bay as part of the Hopkins
Marine Station preserve, is a much more sheltered area. It receives
only direct swells from the northwest and refracted swells from the
south. The area is composed of the same granitic substrate, and con¬
sists mostly of rock outcroppings (4-5 meters) and boulders (1-2 met¬
ers). Smaller, broken-up rocks are less abundant and scattered. The
intertidal zone is much narrower, extending from ten to fifteen met¬
ers out to the water. Algal growth is much less dense, and approxi¬
mates the densities encountered at Pt. Pinos only in small isolated
patches.
Hoyden Cannery Consists of an approximately four by five meter ti¬
dal flat under the shelter of the abandoned Hovden Cannery building.
Although the area did not contain much algae, the high densities of
starfish present warranted observation of the mysical conditions and
the local diet of Leptasterias. In essence, the area most closely
resembles an under-rock or even subtidal location, with the constit¬
uent fauna mostly tunicates, sponges, hydroids, and barnacles.
II Methods
Field Studies: An area at Pt. Pinos with a relatively high density
of Leptasterias was studied in detail. Extensive sampling was done
within this area using randomly placed .25 square meter quadrats. In
each quadrat was recorded the number of Leptasterias, number of Lepta¬
