H. Loren Fong-6
The period of greatest activity in this Ligia species occurred during
the daylight hours. Most activity occurred from mid-morning to late
afternoon. During dusk to dawn the Ligia were inactive, with the majority of
individuals clustering around the small chunk of granite in the tub. When no
granite was available, the Ligia would group together in the corner of the
plastic tubs. This experement was replicated twice, and the results were the
same. Although the control animals did not have any food available to them,
they still demonstrated the same activity period.
Discussion
It is apparent from field data and laboratory experiments that Ligia
occidentalis feed extensively on the drift algae present in their habitat
(Miller, 1938). Although other species of Ligia migrate daily into the
intertidal zone during low tide (Carefoot 1973, Hewitt 1907), L. occidentalis
does not appear to do so. Instead they remain in the same area and exploit
the algae that wash onto the beach. The differences in the algae present in
the fecal pellets from the Lovers point site and at Hopkins (See Fig 1)
indicate Ligia is an opportunistic forager and will eat the algae which occurs
most frequently. Studies by Nicholls in 1931 indicate Ligia have enzymes
which act readily on most carbohydrates, proteins, and fats, but do not have
the cellulase required to digest cell walls. This would explain why the fecal
pellet contents look much like the gut contents. The granite fragments found
in the gut may be used to break down the cell walls allowing digestion of the
contents of at least some of the cells. My experiments using the brown, red,
and green algae, indicate that the Ligia probably utilize each of these algal
resources, thereby maximally exploiting available food sources.
