Ophiodromus behavi
Page 9
M. Serences
as four times. The commensals would venture underneath
and above the everted stomach of the seastar, but rarely
went between the folds of the stomach or close to the
mouth.
Experiment 8—-To determine whether the commensals were in¬
deed eating the food of the seastar, fifteen feeding
experiments were conducted. In each case, 25 ml of un¬
filtered salt water, unless specified, was used to prepare
17gms of unflavored gelatin. This was poured approximately
1/2 cm thick into petri dishes and additional substances
were added as noted. Methylene blue was used to dye the
first gelatin and carmine red was used in subsequent ex¬
periments. Patiria with Ophiodromus were starved for
periods noted in Table 3. For each experiment, several
small pieces of gelatin were placed in a crystallization
dish of appropriate size filled with sea water. A seastar
with six commensals was placed over the food. Once the
Patiria had hold of the gelatin, it was placed in a plastic
tank with circulating sea water. Commensals were examined
under a dissecting scope after six, nine and 24 hours
following feeding for any signs of dyed particles within
the gut.
Results and observations are listed in Table 3. The
slashes indicate results from duplicate runs of the same
experiment. Commensal feeding while the host was ingesting
food was observed in six out of sixteen experiments.
