J. T. Jensen/3
linear shell dimension. Juveniles, particularily those of Tegula
funebralis, differ from the adults in more ways than mere size, but
when specimens are arranged in a series of graded shell size identi¬
fication presents no problems.
All studies were conducted on Mussel Point, in Pacific Grove,
California, adjacent to the Hopkins Marine Station, in a region
protected from strong wave action. Sites chosen displayed a moder¬
ate (approximately 45 degree) slope showing marked vertical zona¬
tion and a diversity of habitats including bare rock, rock covered
with barnacles or algae, and a number of small pools and cracks
where sand could accumulate. Atransect was extended from the water
to the highest point above the water in each of four study areas.
Two 25 cm“ samples were taken at each 0.5 foot increment in height
above mean lower low water (MLLW), beginning at approximately the
0.0 foot level. Absolute height was determined by comparison to
an existing surveyed benchmark nearby. To assure random sampling,
the 25 cme quadrat was placed a variable distance from the midline
of the transect on the basis of random numbers. All Littorina and
Tegula were inspected in each quadrat. Holdfasts and fronds of al¬
gae were removed from the quadrat and examined separately. Field
records were made of the habitats occupied by animals as they were
collected. With the exception of bare surfaces, and other situations
where accurate counts could be made in the field, samples were bag¬
ged and examined in the laboratory with the aid of a dissecting
microscope.
