-4-
William F. Jessee
to a position outside this strip. Their locations after 24
hours were noted, and are presented in Table 3. A variation
of this experiment was also carried out in which the home
itself was included in the area scrubbed. This was to
eliminate any possible attractant on the home, as well as
"trails" leading to the home. As shown in Table 3, neither
of these treatments completely destroyed the ability to
home.
A second group of experiments was performed to remove
chemical substances. All animals in a one foot square area
were removed and the rock painted with a solution of 32%
NaoH. The surface was then rinsed repeatedly with copious
quantities of seawater until the pH of the wash water was
near neutrality. The animals were then replaced within
4 cm. of their homes. Five animals outside the treated
area were also displaced a similar distance and utilized
as controls. At the end of the customary 24 hour waiting
period, 8 of the 10 animals in the experimental group had
returned to their homes.
Having established that the removal of chemical subÂ¬
stances on the rock had no noticeable effect on the homing
ability, experiments were begun in which the topography of
the rock surface surrounding the home was altered. A
geologist's pick and a chisel were used to create a strip
