time after which visually obvious changes in pattern morphology could no
longer be distinguished, I was able to estimate sanddab acclimation rate
to a new substrate
Digital image processing was used to analyze a few representative
photographs as a demonstration that this technology may be applied as a
valuable complement to other forms of photographic analysis. The image
processing was conducted on the MegaVision 1024-XM computer with
input from a video camera. Photographic images were stored in 1024 X
1024 arrays of pixels, with each pixel assigned a gray value from 0
(black) to 255 (white).I selected pre- and post-acclimation photos for
one rocky fish placed on sand and for one sandy fish placed on rock (see
Figures 4 & 5, respectively), Histograms of the gray scale values for a
small area around the same eyespot on each fish were obtained to
compare how this specific area changed af ter 8 days of acclimation to a
different substrate. Histograms of gray scale values for equal sized
areas of sand and rock were also obtained for comparison of the two
substrates. The command "scanner" was used to input the video image of
the black and white print into one of the temporary memories. "Polygon
was used to create a template so that several photographs of the same
fish could be aligned. This command was then used to create a sample
area for the analysis of gray scale values from an image. "Hpolygon
created a histogram of gray scale values from the image within the
polygon. "Hlist" was used to obtain the raw data from the histogram,
which was stored onto a floppy disc and transferred to Lotus for
graphing. To compensate for differences in exposure or development of
the photographs, "sample" was used to obtain point readings of gray scale
values from the image, and "mapper" was used to equalize existing
differences.
