(3-6uv) due to the application of O.5M Nacl + ASW or 0.6M Sucrose + ASW.
I believe that one of two possibilities can account for these chemically
stimulated affects on the osphradium. The different effects on spike
amplitudes could be caused by different osphradial receptors stimulating
larger O.N. axons to fire in response to the 1M Nacl, O.5M'Na-Gluconate +
ASW, and 1M LiCl. This would result in larger action potentials than occur
normally. Smaller axons stimulated by other receptors for O.5M NaCl + ASW or
O.6M Sucrose + ASW would account for the effect of these solutions. Another
explanation for the two distinct responses involves a heightened frequency of
firing in one population of O.N. axons per unit sampling time. Even thouzh
the spike amplitude of single axons active during stimulation does not
increase, many additional axons may be activated thereby causing the
increased signal. Because data was displayed on a chart recorder with
limited frequency response it was not feasible to distinguish between these
two possibilities. Very fast, continuous sampling using either an
oscilloscope (recording on film) or a computerized data acquisition system
would resolve this uncertainty.
Further Cl, Na, and osmotic substitutes need to be tested to confirm the
results reported here and increase understanding of mechanisms underlying
these stimulants. Other intriguing substances such as food, gametes, body
wastes, and particulate matter beg investigation to uncover possible
influences on the osphradium, and thereby advance our knowledge of this
cryptic organ.
