reversal of metergoline and ketanserin inhibition by serotonin,
Serotonin seems to interact competitively with these two
antagonists, acting in a concentration-dependent way. The
experiments with ketanserin especially show that the higher the
serotonin concentration used, the faster cell division occurred.
While the putative sea urchin egg serotonin receptors are
affected by all the serotonergic drugs I assayed, known to be
effective on nerve cells, these receptors do not seem to be
comparable to nerve receptors. In terms of the antagonist
affinities, sea urchin receptors seem to be comparable to 5-HT2
receptors, ordinarily found in mammalian cerebral cortex cells.
However, the potent 5-HT2 agonist DOI had the effect of acting as
an antagonist and delaying cleavage. Similar results were seen
with the 5-HTIB agonist RU24969 and the 5-HT3 agonist phenyl
biguanide, indicating that sea urchin receptors cannot be 5-
ITIB, 5-HT2, or 5-HT3 receptors. The only other characterized
receptor types are 5-HTIA, 5-HTIC and 5-HTID. However, the fact
that the cinanserin, ketanserin and spiperone all potently
inhibited development would discourage the conclusion that sea
urchin egg receptors could be one of these three remaining
subtypes-these three antagonists have very low, if any affinity
Most nerve receptors are
for these three subtypes.
extracellular. But this study indicates sea urchin egg receptors
are probably intracellular; in order to get an effect from
serotonin, it was necessary to permeabilize the egg so that the
substrate could enter the cell. Therefore, sea urchin receptors
may be a novel receptor type or subtype, as yet uncharacterized.
An interesting finding is that the only agonist that has
