Metals in Dipterans and Amphipods, 2.
INTRODUCTION
The study of major elements in plant and animal tissue dates
back to antiquity (Pliny, Celsus), and by the middle of the
eighteenth century a true trace element, lead, had been de
tected in animals (Henkel, 1755). Recent advances in organic
chemistry and analytical techniques have enabled precise es-
timates of trace metals in diverse organisms (Vinogradov, 1953;
Goldberg, 1966). As late as 1953, however, none of the 750,000
known species of insects had been tested for trace element
composition, and only 100 out of 15,500 species of crustaceans
had been analysed (Vinogradov, 1953). Although more recent
studies have begun to fill the vacuum in this area (Spector,
1956; Stamm, 1958; Warnick and Bell, 1969), no work to date
has focused on metal levels in arthropods of the sandy beach.
Over a seven week period, I attempted to determine trace ele-
ment levels in a marine and a terrestrial arthropod inhabiting
the beach. I was especially interested in the general question
of how a primarily marine and a land animal would compare in
metal levels, as well as in how concentrations would vary
geographically, temporally, and with age. Beach hoppers
amphipods of the genus Orchestoidea - and marine flies were
selected for comparison because they are known to exploit the
same food source, the beach wrack. I hoped to set a base line
with which future analyses could be compared in a temporal
study of pollution, as well as to establish reasonable ranges
of daily fluctuation for each metal.
