Metals in Dipterans and Amphipods, 5.
beach itself (Koski, 1972), and may reflect iron-rich wrack,
Copper is important as a respiratory pigment in arthropod
blood, and Bowen (1966) suggests that flies and amphipods
contain an equal amount of this metal, 50 ppm. My results
fall short of this figure except at Hopkins back beach where
copper may enter the ecosystem from boat paint intended to
leak the element to discourage fouling by marine animals.
Zinc, iron and copper are all essential to living organisms
as constituents of metalloenzymes and proteins.
Cadmium levels reported by Bowen (1966) indicate too little
of the metal for detection in insects and only 0.15 ppm in
crustacea. Warnick and Bell (1969) found that cadmium was
acutely toxic to fresh water insects in concentrations of
0.016 to 0.064 ppm. In light of these figures, the beach
arthropods showed very high (up to 149.7) levels of this
metal, suggesting a local source of contamination. Lady
bugs, which are predaceous terrestrial insects and swarm the
beaches following hibernation (Borror, 1964), contained no
detectable cadmium. This indicates that the metal's input
may be largely marine despite its low (0.05 microgram/liter)
level in "normal" sea water (Riley and Chester, 1971). Pro
teins containing cadmium have been found in several animals
(Vinogradov, 1953; Kagi and Vallee, 1961), but the metal is
considered toxic due to its ability to replace zinc in en-
zymes. Nilsson (1970) has compiled a list of the 20 known
toxic effects of cadmium, demonstrating that the metal is a
very wide-spectrum toxin.
Manganese: Manganese was low in all beach arthropods tested
(less than 10 ppm). Flies were slightly higher than hoppers at
each site, but not to the extent reported by Bowen (1966) -
a five-to-one ratio. The lady bugs had higher Mn content
(24.8 ppm) than the beach dwellers. This may be due to very
high concentrations in land plants - up to 630 ppm (Bertrand
and Silberstein, 1954) - or to accumulation in the gut walls
