Over the brief time period studied, it has been shown
that Boatworks Beach and Marinostat Beach are exposed to
essentially the same quality and quantity of suspended par¬
ticulate material. Plausible explanations include: 1) the
source of input is the same and/or steady over time, 2) pro¬
cesses providing the material are similar, 3) the incoming
material has been sufficiently mixed to disguise source
variability.
Both study sites are surrounded by the same rocky inter¬
tidal algal communities. These biologically rich areas could
provide a substantial detrital contribution to the surrounding
sandy beach ecosystems in the same manner reef detritus pro¬
vides a base for trophic systems within a lagoon (Marshall,
1965).
The hydrodynamic forces which apparently cause extensive
variation in suspended particulate organic matter at any one
time and place are the same processes which would result in
its steady input over time. They include surface winds,
waves, currents, obstacles (e.g. rocks, larger algal drift),
small benthic irregularities causing local eddies or pockets
of calm, and the diminishing of littoral water forces with
depth (Smith, 1968). During periods of calm, plant detritus
usually settles with the fine-grained sediments. "But the
topmost layer of such sediments is often flocculent and so
easily stirred up that the detritus in it is continually re¬
exposed to decomposition in suspension" (Smith, 1968). Once
the detritus is stirred, irregularities in water cells, the
