P. Craig
General movement-of the population is shown in Figure 1.
Periods of movement in Acmaea pelta shows a consistent rela-
tionship with the tidal cycle. The limpets remain stationary
when out of water. Movement usually does not occur until the
end of the period when they are awash on an incoming tide.
While only three of the limpets depicted in Figure 1 moved
during the initial awash period of the higher high water, all
moved during the early part of the period of submersion.
During the following period of lower high water (Figure 1),
those animals too high on the rock to be submerged did not
move at all, although they were awash for an extensive period.
In general, A. pelta do not move until they are submerged,
though after being submerged, some were observed to move up-
ward on the rock into the zone still awash, climbing at a
rate equal to that of the incoming tide. A. pelta usually
do not remain active for the high tide period and in several
instances have been observed not to move at all (e.g. limpet
"i", Figure 1). Such stationary individuals usually move
during the following high tide.
Exact paths of movement were not plotted, but net dis-
placement on the rocks between successive observation periods
was noted for each limpet. This provides a measure of minimum
10
