P. Craig
is indicated by Glynn, 1965), is characterized by macroscopic
red algae. In this region Acmaea pelta ingested a variety of
algae (Figure 5, A). Macroscopic algae (55%) were present in
twice the volume of microscopic algae (263). The macroscopic
algae present in the gut are not minute, immature plants but
consist of small fragments of much larger specimens. Field
observation suggests that these are probably obtained from
plants which are growing in small crevices and which have
been grazed repeatedly, and from the holdfasts of larger
plants growing on the open rock surface.
The brown alga Pelvetia characterizes a zone between
4.5 and 2.0 feet above mean lower low water (Smith, 1944).
This plant is the primary food of Acmaea pelta here (Figure
5, B). Most limpets in this region are found in the moist
area under the blades of the Pelvetia, and except for a few
small individuals they are not often seen on the blades
themselves. They apparently feed on the holdfast where
limpets are often observed during a period of submersion.
Pelvetia appeared unusually macerated in the stomach of these
limpets and is thought to constitute a large portion of the
33% of unidentified debris.
