-6-
Stephen A. Chun
and Barleeia haliotiphila than its field control, and that the study
area where the snails were added did have a significantly higher T.
pulloides and B. haliotiphila density than its field control. Fig-
ure 7 also shows that the percentage of frond area bearing B.
haliotiphila and T. pulloides grazing tracks increases with snail
density while the percentage of frond area covered by a dense growth
of pennate diatoms decreases. This relationship between snail den¬
sity and percentage of frond area densely covered by pennate diatoms
is plotted in figure 8. These points best fits a power function
showing an inverse relationship between B. haliotiphila and T. pul-
loides density and the percentage of frond area covered by a dense
pennate diatom growth.

DIS(
CUSSION
The positive relationship between snail density and percentage
of frond area examined bearing Barleeia haliotiphila and Tricolia
pulloides grazing tracks indicates that grazing pressure was de-
creased in the study area where the snails were taken out. The in¬
verse relationship between grazer density and the percentage of frond
area densely covered by pennate diatoms further suggests that this
decreased grazing pressure of B. haliotiphila and T. pulloides had
a positive effect on the percentage of frond area densely covered by
pennate diatoms. The hypothesis that high T. pulloides and B. halio-
tiphila densities reduces diatom populations is further supported by
the finding that both T. pulloides and B. haliotiphila grazing tracks
