-3-
Stephen A. Chun
coated, 1/2 inch marine plywood boxes. They were fitted and bolted
to the granite substrate using lead anchors. The bottoms were seal¬
ed to the substrate with quick-drying cement and epoxy putty, and a
fine wire mesh 5 cm wide was nailed to the tops. One fence was placed
on each vertical face while the un-fenced study area which was 30 cm
to the right of each fenced area served as a field control.
The high snail density study area was created by placing the
following numbers of prosobranch gastropods in the algal holdfasts
in one fenced area twice each week: 200 Tricolia pulloides
(Carpenter, 1865); 100 Barleeia haliotiphila (Carpenter, 1864);
and 25 Tegula funebralis (A. Adams, 1855). These snails were col¬
lected from different areas and kept in aquariums a few days before
their addition. The low snail density study area was created by re¬
moving all gastropods and other grazers which were found while exam¬
ining the algal holdfasts, the algal fronds, and the granite sub¬
strate within the other fenced area once each week. Four to five
randomly selected fronds were collected from all four areas each
week. The top portion of the frond above the second branching was
removed and the remaining area was scored under a dissecting micro¬
scope at 30X magnification for the percentage of area which was cov¬
ered by grazing tracks and by epiphytes. The vertical distribution
of these tracks and epiphytes was also recorded. Student t-tests
were computed to compare the means of the total number of fronds
collected from each area on weeks 1, 2, and 3 1/2.
