Manganese (Fig, 1
Manganese is only moderately toxic, and in small
amounts is essential to all organisms. It is known to
activate numerous enzymes (Bowen, 1966), and is necessary
for normal growth, skeletal development, reproductive
performance, and functioning of the central nervous sys-
tem (Christian and Feldman, 1970). The levels of man-
ganese found at Pacifica and at White's Point are signi-
ficantly different from one another at the.Ol level and
both are much higher than the levels found at the other
six locations. The Monterey Harbor and Point Pinos values
are similar but differ significantly from the level for
Mussel Point which geographically lies in between them.
Carmel Mission Point and Malpaso Creek have similar levels
but differ significantly from Monastery Beach values.
Silver (Fig, 5)
Silver may be accumulated as an environmental contami-
nant. It can inhibit or inactivate a number of enzymes by
reacting with thiol groups on the enzyme at or near the ac-
tive site. Silver is rarely found in plants (Christian
and Feldman, 1970) so probably is not entering the Pagurus
through the algal part of their omnivorous diet. Point
Pinos shows the highest levels of silver while Carmel
Mission Point shows the lowest. The Point Pinos, Pacifica.
