and Carmel Mission Point samples represent populations
which differ at the.Ol level of significance. The
samples from the Mussel Point and White's Point popula-
tions are not significantly different; the same is true
of the populations at Monterey Harbor, Malpaso Creek, and
Monastery Beach with regard to silver concentrations.
Zinc (Fig, 6)
Zinc has a low toxicity to mammals and is an essential
nutrient for all plants and animals (Bowen, 1966; Christian
and Feldman, 1970). The levels of zinc at Monterey Harbor
were significantly higher than those at all other loca-
tions (.Ol level). These high readings at the Harbor are
probably being influenced by the Monterey sewage plant
effluent which on May, 1971 put into Monterey Bay about
7500 grams/day of Zn (Vieth, 1971). This effluent is
dumped into the Bay approximately 2000 meters from the
Harbor, and periodically the currents run from the out-
fall toward the Harbor. Another major source of zinc in
the Harbor is probably the zinc used externally on small
ships to prevent electrolysis of the shaft and propellor.
Point Pinos, White's Point, Carmel Mission Point, and
Pacifica were statistically similar and ranked second
highest in Zn concentrations. All four are fairly close
to sewage outfalls.
