with the dorsal surface lying next to the outer side of the gill
chamber. Males were generally found with their heads facing the
anterior end of the fish, but their dorsal side could be facing
either the inner or outer side of the chamber. Young isopods, two
to five mm. in length were often found crawling on the outer gill
filaments.
Externally, parasitized fish couldn't be distinquished from
non-infected fish. Ovigerous females with large brood pouches
leave an indentation in the gill chamber where the brood pouch
rests. Both males and females have hooked pereiopods which they
use to attach to the host. These leave holes of about one mm.
diameter in the inner side of the gill. Sometimes the distal parts
of the gill filaments are destroyed by the isopod.
Females in the date-brooding stages contained no food in their
guts or diverticula. Diverticulas of males and females in the
early brooding stages contained blood, which was determined to be
hemoglobin by comparing adsorption peaks of blood pigments ex-
tracted from the blood of Citharichthys sordidus and the blood
in livoneca's diverticula. Mouthparts of Livoneca are very similar to those
in the family Aegidae, which are very frequently found with their
guts and thoracic segments full of blood. (Bowman,1960). ExaminaÂ¬
tion of the gut revealed no other food preference; all guts were
empty except for minute fragments of what looked like bacteria.
