3 NC
between gland and pharynx, aluminum foil crimps and silk
thread ties were used to ligate the canal. Jabbing a thin,
pointed piece of foil under the canal and folding the sides
up around the canal proved to be the most effective method
of ligation. The tentacles were trimmed and the pharynx cut
away as much as possible without disrupting either gland or
ganglion. Any gross changes in gland appearance were noted
until the animal died. Hearbeat and contraction of the
oral siphon were used as positive indications of viability.
Unligated dissections were observed concurrently as controls.
To test for movement of material into the gland via the
dorsal tubercle and canal, dissections with ligated and
unligated canals were soaked in either Neutral Red or
fluorescein solutions. Saturated solutions of these dyes
were prepared with filtered sea water and constant stirring
for 15-20 minutes with subsequent re-filtering. Dissections
were soaked in these dyes at 5-10Â° C in the dark overnight
and then rinsed in fresh running sea water for at least two
hours. Glands of the ligated and unligated specimens were
then compared.
To test for movement of material out of the gland via
the canal and tubercle, dissections were injected with
solutions of methylene blue, fluorescein, or Neutral Red
prepared as before. The canals were then ligated. Unligated,
injected preparations were used as controls. Injections were
administered using a micropipette pulled on a David Kopf
vertical pulling machine. This pipette was then attached
