the resting metabolic rate, 3) the animal's mass, and 4) the
distance travelled. For this study, the amount of fuel ingested by
each animal was obtained from feeding records by averaging the
number of grams of salmon eaten by each individual during the five
months preceeding this study. Next, caloric intake was calculated
by first taking the caloric value of the ingested salmon. (2,170
cal q-i, Altman 1968). Second, the number of calories absorbed
from the food was estimated by multiplying the total caloric value
of the salmon by an estimated assimilation rate. Wetherbee (1988)
reported assimilation rates of 622 to 834 in the lemon shark at
25Â°C and these values are used here. Finally, resting metabolic
costs were subtracted. Brett and Blackburn (1978) reported resting
metabolic rates for elasmobranchs in general of 97 to 269 cal kg-i
h-l at 150C, Scharold (198981990) and Bushnell (1982) reported
metabolic rates within this range for the leopard and lemon
sharks. Adjusting these values to 130C using a o 2.3 produced a
resting metabolic range of 82 to 228 cal kgri hri. Each shark was
weighed during the study. Distance travelled was measured as
follows, A blueprint of the tank where the sharks were held was
obtained and visual reference points such as anemones and rocks
were marked on the blueprint. Each shark was observed for one hour
sessions and its position in the tank was recorded on the
blueprint every ten seconds. Each shark was watched for three
sessions during daylight hours and one session at night. he
beginning of the daytime sessions varied from 1000 to 1800 and the
nighttime session took place at 0000.
