limpets was significantly greater than the experimental
group, with a p-value of less than 0.005. Total body
osmolarities of the control and experimental limpets
were similar at this time, which coincides with both
groups being splashed by high surf. There was no
significant difference in tenacities at twenty-nine
hours, but a significant difference in both extra-
corporeal fluid osmolarity and tenacity among the
control and experimental groups at forty-nine hours.
There was also a 50% decrease in tenacity of the
experimental group 49 hours after submergence, compared
with the initial control at time zero.
Figure Two shows the data from the second of three
submergence experiments. This experiment was conducted
under conditions of very warm weather and early low
followed by low-high tides. This maximized dessication
resulting in extracorporeal fluid and body fluid
osmolarities to 1300 mOsm. With this increase in
osmolarity, there was also an increase in tenacity from
the nine- to twenty-five-hour period. This relation-
ship is also seen from forty-nine to ninety-seven hours
in the control group. Prior to the forty-nine-hour
period, extracorporeal fluid and body fluid osmolari-
ties remained relatively constant in both the control
