and experimental groups, as did the tenacities from
zero to six hours. Although it is unlikely that an
increased osmolarity is always indicative of an
increase in tenacity, the exposure to sea water
resulted in a significantly lower osmolarity and
tenacity in the experimental group with all p-values
less than 0.005 except in the nine-hour sample for
tenacity. Another important finding is that the
tenacities of the experimental limpets declined to
approximately 54% of the control value (at time zero)
after ninety-seven hours of submergence.
Figure Three shows the data from the final
submergence experiment in which all but the three-hour
experimental tenacities were significantly lower than
the control limpets with p-values less than 0.005. In
addition, the extracorporeal fluid osmolarities of the
experimental limpets were significantly lower than
controls at all sampling times. Body fluid osmolarities
followed extracorporeal fluid osmolarities in both
control and experimental groups. The ninety-seven-hour
experimental group showed a 64% decrease in tenacity
from the controls at time zero. There was also a rapid
drop in the tenacities of the experimental limpets from
the three- to nine-hour sampling times.
