Materials and Methods
To examine the effects of submergence on tenacity.
extracorporeal fluid and body fluid osmolarity, a popu-
lation of C. digitalis on a rock face were enclosed in
a 1.2x1.2-meter fence of 1/4-inch hardware mesh. This
served to keep the limpets from escaping a constant
flow of sea water piped to the top of the study area
during the experimental period. An adjacent group of
limpets at the same tidal height were used as controls
and exposed to the normal tide and wave cycle. Before
the experimental limpets were submerged, 10 control
limpets were sampled and 10 of each control and experiÂ¬
mental limpets were sampled 3, 6, 9, 25, 49, 73 and 97
hours after submergence.
To measure tenacity, wire loops were fixed on the
limpets' shell with splash zone epoxy compound. A
spring scale was attached to the loop and the limpets
were pulled at a 45-degree angle to approximate the
vector sum of lift and drag forces. The force (lbs.)
required to remove the limpets from the rock was
converted to Newtons and divided by the area of the
limpets' foot to obtain a value of tenacity (N/m2).
