showed no significant difference; however, this coin-
cided with a period of heavy surf which was washing the
control limpets also. The nine-hour sample of experiÂ¬
ment two and the three-hour sample of experiment three
show significant difference in tenacities due to high
variance and small sample size. Moreover, in the three
submergence experiments the ability of the limpets to
cling to the substrate declined rapidly in the first
nine hours and was less than 50% of the initial control
value by two days. This means that C. digitalis living
at lower levels may be placed in danger of being washed
off the rock, especially as their immersion time
increases as wave force increases. Though the safety
factor of a resting limpet is quite high (Denny et al.
1985), it is much lower for a crawling limpet and the
reducion in tenacity resulting from equilibration with
sea water may represent a significant physical stress
and play an important role in habitat selection in C.
digitalis. The transplant experiment designed to
"test" this demonstrated a 50% loss of limpet relocated
to lower levels over that of the controls. There could
be other reasons for this loss than being washed off
the rock (migration or predation); however, the most
rapid loss was in the exposed population, which is
