(7)
SCUSSION
Harrold (1973) has suggested from his observations that C. harfordi are
most active in the early morning hours between 0200 and 0400, a time which
would correspond to the observed period of maximum diurnal ammonia release.
Since protein represents the principle source of food energy in C. harfordi,
increased protein catabolism with a subsequent rise in nitrogen excretion
could be expected to correlate with elevated activity levels.
Wieser and his associates (1969) have found that a starved terrestrial
herbivore, Porcellio scaber, excretes approximately three times as much ammonia
as a normally fed animal. A number of researchers have suggested that a
variety of crustaceans, isopods included, utilize protein as a source of
energy reserve (Neiland and Scheer, 1953; Holdich, 1971). When overall ex-
cretion rates are compared between species of isopods which are presumably
utilizing protein as an energy source, similar values are obtained. During
spring months, P. scaber (Wieser, et. al., 1969) and fed C. harfordi each ex¬
crete over a 24-hour period approximately 11 ng NH,/mg/hr. Thus, ammonia
excretion may represent a parameter by which protein metabolism may be es¬
timated in a variety of isopod species. Sloan (1967) has shown a significant
correlation between the level of protein in the diet and excretion of volatile
ammonia, and no correlation between the level of protein in the diet and ex¬
cretion of urea, uric acid and ammonium in the fecal materials. In addition,
Wieser and Schweizer (1970) have found a significant correlation between am¬
monia excretion and variation in body metabolism due to abrupt temperature
changes in P. scaber. Therefore, in at least several species of terrestrial
isopods, amino acid catabolism and the release of ammonia appear to represent
qualitatively and quantitatively integrated phenomena.
