(1)
TNTPODTI
INTRDO
TION
In most animals, the requirement to detoxify ammonia wastes represents
the principle reason behind making the transition from ammonotelism to ureo-
telism. In general, aquatic organisms excrete ammonia as the primary cata¬
bolic waste which arises from the oxidative deamination of amino acids. Nor-
mally, terrestrial organisms, which must conserve body water, have been re¬
quired to evolve alternative biochemical and physiological modes of nitrogen
excretion which usually involve the biosynthesis of urea and uric acid as pri¬
mary wastes. However, it has been found that some terrestrial isopods have
been able to retain ammonotelism by developing a process of gaseous ammonia
release (Dresel and Moyle, 1950; Wieser, et. al., 1969). This may represent
a significant terrestrial adaptation in itself in that retention of ammono-
telism may confer significant thermodynamic advantages to the organism.
Nitrogenous excretion in isopods has been investigated by a number of
individuals, but limited research has been performed which adequately char-
acterizes observed diurnal patterns of ammonia release. Such diurnal rhythms
may represent a contributing adaptation to the capacity for retention of am-
monotelism in terrestrial animals in that ammonia is excreted at times when
concomitant water loss from permeable surface membranes is minimized. Wieser
and his associates (1969) were the first to describe a daily excretion rhythm
in two species of terrestrial isopods. Kirby (1973) has found diurnal pat-
terns of ammonia release in a variety of marine species as well. In general.
it appears that the excretory process concerned with the release of nitrogenous
wastes in isopods is at least, in a temporal sense, a non-random, carefully
regulated function. However, it has not been shown conclusively if the pat¬
tern of ammonia release in isopods represents a truly endogenous rhythm or if
