The investigation was divided into two parts. Activity patterns
and the most probable influencing environmental factors were
first measured in the field. The factors which most closely
correlated to activity patterns were then simulated in the lab-
oratory to establish the relative importance of each.
Field study. The level of activity was ascertained by counting
the number of animals caught in baited traps over a given length
of time. 10 traps were spaced at 4-m intervals along a 45-m
transect line running perpendicular to the shoreline. The traps
were numbered from 1 to 10 going from +92 cm to -116 cm tidal
level (see Figure 1). The cotton lines of the traps could be
clipped on the transect line allowing easy removal and replaceÂ¬
ment of all traps in a short time period (see Figure 2). The
traps could then be taken into the lab to remove and count the
animals. A trap consisted of a plastic freezer jar 7.5 cm deep
and 9 cm in diameter. 9 holes of 7 mm diameter were drilled
in the bottom which allowed the animals to crawl in. The plastic
screen cone guided them into the trap and prevented their exit.
The cotton lines were used to attach a 1.5-pound diver's weight
to the trap and to attach both the weight and the trap to the
transect line. The transect line consisted of +inch polyethylene
braid anchored at both ends by lag eye-bolts embedded in granite
by expansion sleeves and epoxy. The bait consisted of weighed
pieces of squid wrapped in fine nylon cloth to prevent the
