page five
the flask. At 23 degrees C. there was no measureable oxygen
consumption over 12 hours. Another similar experiment, also
without antibiotics, was conducted, and differed from the first
only in the addition of 30 Cirolana, 2.4 grams wet weight, all
freshly killed in a 95% methanol solution. It should be noted
that the total wet weight in both Graph +2 and #3 is 2.5-2.6 gms.,
and that the mortality rate in Graph 42 was 35 animals/50 animals.
The results of this experiment are analysed in a slightly
different manner, as there is a 6:05 hours period of initial
bacterial growth without measureable O- consumption. The initial
tension was 17% Saturation, or 5.6 ppm, or 4.0 ml. O/liter.
Final tension was 1% Saturation, time elapsed to minimum oxygen
from O-hour was 12:45 hrs.; time elapsed to minimum oxygen from
beginning of measureable consumption was 6:40 hours. The average
02- consumption rate was .57 ml. 0,/L/hr., or .24 ml. O/gm./hr.
(Graph #4).
The use of wet weight in these experiments was not an original
idea (Steve Webster, dissertation thesis), but was adapted because
of the preponderance of non-respiring (chitonous) organic material
found in isopods. Repeatable weighings were achieved for a single
animal over eight trials, and the value obtained (.lgm) perfectly
matched the average weight of 50 animals of the same size class,
also wet weight. Fifty- animal group weights (wet) were repeatable
to .1 gram.
III. Conclusions
1. Bacteria contribute largely to oxygen consumption measurements
unless antibiotics are used, but such contribution does not become
measureable until specimen death provides the needed organic
