Introduction
Biological membranes are structurally and functionally essential to all living
organisms. The cell membrane is generally depicted as comprising a dynamic, fluid
phospholipid bilayer, held together by weak hydrophobic interactions among the nonÂ¬
polar acyl-chain regions of the phospholipids. These interactions in part allow mobility in
the phospholipids as well as other integral membrane molecules (e.g., glycoproteins,
channels, cholesterols) (Singer and Nicholson, 1972). The fluidity of the membrane
depends on several factors, including composition the lipid acyl chains and temperature.
Membrane fluidity is positively correlated with the degree of lipid acyl chain
desaturation, because the double bonds introduce kinks that prevent efficient packing of
the lipids into the bilayer. More saturated acyl chains favor denser compaction of the
membrane lipids, composing a more ordered membrane (Cossins and Prosser, 1977;
Farkas and Roy, 1989). Increasing temperature also promotes membrane fluidity by
enhancing molecular motion (for review see Hochachka and Somero, 2002). The weak
hydrophobic interactions leave the membrane vulnerable to the possibly deleterious
effects of extreme temperatures. Thermal disruption of the membrane state can critically
impact the essential structure and function of the membrane, indicating a need for a
limited temperature range in which membrane constituents can most effectively function
(for review see Hazel, 1995). For organisms inhabiting different thermal niches.
adjustments to membrane composition may be required to maintain an effective
membrane state in spite of thermal perturbations. One way an organism could respond to
the threat of thermal disruption to physical membrane state is by altering the ratio of
saturated to unsaturated lipid molecules in the bilayer. For example, organisms coping
