N. incessa compare to those obtained by Epel for the sea urchin
embryo, S. purpuratus, (Epel, 1972) and by Manahan for the
oyster embryo, C. gigas (Manahan, 1988). Note that depletion
of the available amino acid pool (Figure 5) may have
significantly decreased the ambient concentration of leucine,
consequently giving erroneous values for Ky and Vmay.
INCORPORATION
Figures 6 and 7 report the fate of the transported amino
acids, whether remaining free or becoming incorporated into
protein. Leucine was incorporated into protein to a much
greater extent (70.83 +/- 6.4, n=8) than was methionine (14.43
+/- 4.8, n=8). Note that the free amino acid fraction may
contain both intact amino acids and metabolized forms as well.
AUTORADIOGRAPH
An autoradiograph (Figure 8) was done to reveal any
patterns of protein synthesis which might be characteristic of
a particular developmental stage. Note that only proteins
synthesized during the radioactive pulse will appear as bands
on the autoradiograph. No unique pattern of bands was observed
for any of the time point samples. The overall darker
character of the gel lanes which contained fertilized embryo
samples confirms that fertilized embryos are indeed taking up
and incorporating exogenously-supplied amino acids to a much
greater extent than unfertilized eggs.
