to be incorporated into protein appears to be consistent with
Berg's findings. Methionine's tendency, however, to remain
unincorporated contradicts the findings of Ilan and Ilan (Ilan
and Ilan, 1981), who reported that exogenously supplied
methionine is preferentially channeled into protein by S.
purpuratus embryos.
Methionine's tendency to remain unincorporated relative to
leucine could have several possible explanations. One
possibility is that methionine is simply not as ubiquitous in
N. incessa proteins as is leucine. A CRC table listing mole
percentages of amino acids in several common proteins indicated
that leucine typically comprises 10-158 of a protein, while
methionine typically comprises only 1-48 (CRC, 1970). Another
possibility is that although methionine, whose tRNA is coded
for by the start codon, is present in the leader sequence of
every peptide, N. incessa could cleave off the leader sequences
from its proteins more rapidly than other organisms, thereby
decreasing the frequency of its occurrence in the protein
fraction. Lastly, methionine could be prevented from being
incorporated into protein by its metabolism to other forms.
In
one particular metabolic pathway, methionine serves as a methyl
donor for the methylation of phosphatidyl ethanolamine to
produce phosphatidyl choline, a major cell membrane component
(Lehninger, 1970). As considerable cell membrane must be
synthesized during the early stages of development, it seems
quite plausible that the demand for phosphatidyl choline could
cause much of the exogenous methionine to be metabolized,
thereby precluding its incorporation into protein.
12
