Introduction
Trace metals are known to occur in mollusc shells.
However, they occur in such low concentrations as to be
below the detection limits of most analytical methods.
The encyclopaedic work of Vinogradov (1953) on the ele-
mental chemical composition of marine organisms gave the
composition of mollusc shells as mostly calcium carbonate
with some magnesium carbonate, and the rest was collect-
ively termed 'ash'. More recently, Brooks et al. (1965),
using the spectrographic method, attempted a less macro-
scopic analysis of trace metals in molluscs. Except with
Mo, V and Cu, they were again limited by the detection
limits of their methods. They were only able to give es-
timated of the concentrations of many trace metals in
mollusc shells. The use of atomic absorption spectropho-
tometry in microanalysis offered a potentially very re-
warding analytical tool for looking at trace metals in
very low concentrations since the detection limits are
very much lower than all other methods used previously
(Pringle, 1968).
When looking at trace metals in mollusc shells with
the atomic absorption spectrophotometer, however, there
was so much matrix interference, especially at the lower
wavelengths, that the true readings from the trace metals
were completely masked in some cases. This was believed
to be due tothe carbonates in the shell. Various workers
have done work on se-water, which has relatively high le-
vels of both calcium and magnesium carbonate compared to
the concentrations of its trace metal components, by
50
