survival in the posterior and anterior regions. Also, ability to regener-
ate a pygidium was found only in the anterior and posterior regions of
large worms. The reasons for the poorer survival and longer time before
commencement of pygidial regeneration of large animals may be related to
growth rate and age. Large animals have done most of the growing that they
will do. The proliferating area of the pygidium is perhaps slowing prod-
uction of new segments, and segment production may have stopped entirely.
If this is the case, it seems logical that adults would have less ability
to regenerate lost or injured body parts. But if some areas are to retain
more regenerative potential than others, it stands to reason that the ends
of the animal, the regions which are probably exposed the most to injury
and predation, would have the higher potential.
The data collected on regeneration in larger animals appears to support
the conclusions drawn from studies on wound survival. Larger worms did not
regenerate if the wound was made in the middle of the animal. Regeneration
did occur when wounds were made in posterior or anterior regions. The
first signs of regeneration in these areas appeared sixteen days after
amputation. This is intermediate to the range of regeneration rates found
in smaller animals.
Although experiments with "obvious males" and worms of indeterminate
sex did not subdivide the animals into the two sexes, it did indicate that
males with sperm have less ability to survive caudal amputation. This poor
survival ability could be characteristic of males, or of males with sperm,
or of animals of either ser having gametes. In any case, these results
indicated that sexually mature males are poorly suited for studies of
regeneration.
36
