studies, by Bott (1938) and by Tinbergen (1939) concentrated on
the cuttlefish's courtship patterns and Holmes (1940) described
various other patterns. More recently, Hanlon et. al (1986)
systematically characterised the elements and units that go to
make up the body patterns. Hanlon divided the body patterns into
a total of 34 chromatic components, 16 light and i8 dark and, in
addition, described sis textural components, 8 postural
components, and o locomator components. Textural components
reter to the texture of the animal and the dermal papillae that
can expand or contract to cause a rough or emooth surface.
Postural components refer to the way the animal is positioned.
and locomotor components to the motion of the animal. Althouch
the animal can exhibit these components in almost any
combination, Hanlon characterized 13 whole body patterns. Cott
(1940) outlined the ways in which animals can conceal themselves
from predators: colour resemblance, deceptive resemblance,
obliterative shading, disruptive colouration, coincident
disruptive colpuration and concealment. Hanlon (1986) describes
how cuttlefish employ all the techniques of colour matching set
out by Catt.
Hanlon's study describes how the cuttlefish match in a
descriptive, qualitative way; and he noted that his attempts to
quanitty matching were unsatisfactory. The purpose of this study
was to tind a more quantative, gjective way of examining the
mechaniem by which Sepia officinalis match their background
utilising recent advances in the field of digital imag
processing. Computer analysis can be used to obtain numerical
