on the grid. Observation was initiated two hours
before high tide and positions recorded for each indi-
vidual every 1/2 hour until two hours after high tide.
Records of position were compared from one time to the
next to calculate the net distance moved for each
individual during each particular 1/2 hour.
II Water Velocities
The water velocity in the vicinity of the experi¬
mental organisms was estimated as follows: The maximum
water velocity associated with a breaking wave is the
crest velocity. Here I assume that the crest velocity
is an estimate of the maximum velocity experienced by
Lottia. The crest velocity
u - Vogh
(Denny, 1985)
where u is velocity and h is significant wave height
trough to crest at breaking (Shore Protection Manuel).
For this calculation significant wave height was de-
termined by measuring the height of thirty successive
waves during high tide using the wave height scale on
the rock face. hg is the average of the largest 1/3
waves.
III Limpet Tenacity
Measurements of adhesive tenacity were made in the
field. Paperclips were glued to the limpet's shells
using splash zone compound (Koppers 8-788). A record¬
