antibody was not directed to neurofilament protein (NF), the same
transblots were immunostained with a monoclonal anti-NF. NF
staining revealed bands clustered around 200 KD and one strong band
at 110 KD, none of which corresponded with the GFAP band (fig. 1b).
INJURY EXPERIMENTS:
Nine days after amputation of the arms, there were no visible
signs of regeneration. However, the stumps were still active,
responsive to touch, and showed no signs of degeneration. The axial
nerve cords from injured and control arms removed at this point
showed differing levels of GFAP immunoreactivity. From the
transblot stained with anti-GFAP (fig. 2a), it appears that the 140
kD band is more intense in the injured tissue than in the control.
This difference is evident despite the greater amount of protein
loaded for the control tissue (fig. 2b). This rise in the level of
GFAP immunoreactivity is accompanied by the appearance of another
cross reactive band at 80 KD. However, the significance of this
band in relation to injury is questionable since the band sometimes
appears in uninjured tissues as well (data not shown).
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Immunostaining of paraffin sections of Octopus axial nerve
cords and Sepioteuthis stellate ganglia with anti-GFAP and anti-NF
showed different patterns of staining. With anti-GFAP, staining was
more diffuse. However, it appears that staining was primarily in
