vertebrates, the glial cells have become highly specialized cells
in function and structure. Although little is known about the
properties of glia in cephalopods, the fibers that support the
processes of the glial cells as described by Young (1970) may be
related to glial filament proteins in mammals.
GFAP has been shown to be the major structural protein in
differentiated astrocytes (Eng, 1985). Using a polyclonal rabbit
antiserum to human GFAP and immunochemistry techniques, we have
shown cross reactivity of the antibody to a specific protein in
Octopus central and peripheral nervous systems, as well as parts of
the peripheral nervous system of other cephalopods. Furthermore,
using immunohistochemistry, we were able to show that this protein
does not co-localize with neurofilament protein, an indication that
the protein may be associated with glial cells. The product we
obtained was a 140 kD protein. This is unusual as variations in the
molecular weight of mammalian GFAP (48-51 KD) are small (Dahl and
Bignami, 1973). The size of the Octopus protein we obtained
conflicts with the findings of Cardone and Roots, who detected
three protein bands in Western blots with a monoclonal anti-GFAP
(56, 49, and 37 KD). It is interesting that the molecular weights
of the three protein bands sum up to approximately 140 KD. Although
the reducing conditions of the gel sample buffer were similar in
both studies, it is still possible that (i) the high molecular
weight we obtained may be the result of aggregation of the three
lower molecular weight bands, or (ii) the three smaller bands may
be degradation products of the larger protein we found.
To draw further connections between this 140 KD protein and
