cell bodies and extension of the processes. This hypertrophy of
astrocytes following injury, termed astrogliosis, is accompanied by
increased synthesis of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) (Eng.
1988). In most cases, regenerating axons are unable to penetrate
the scar tissue. Although the accumulation of GFAP in these
reactive glial cells appear to inhibit regeneration in mammalian
CNS, they do not seem to present an obstacle to regenerating axons
in lower vertebrates such as the teleosts (Stafford et al., 1990:
Anderson et al., 1984).
In invertebrates, the ability to repair damage to the nervous
system surpasses that of the vertebrates (Fredman and Nutz, 1988).
However, the roles of glial cells in response to injury in these
model systems have not been examined extensively. The lack of glial
markers for immunochemistry studies and the limited knowledge of
glial cells in these organisms beyond morphology make these studies
difficult.
In the present study, we investigate a glial filament protein
in cephalopods that appears to be related to GFAP in vertebrates.
In a previous report, it was found that a monoclonal antibody to
GFAP cross reacted with three bands (56, 49, 37 KD) in protein
blots of Octopus vulgaris optic lobe homogenate. Using
immunoelectron microscopy, it was found that the antibody labelled
filaments that may be glial in nature (Cardone and Roots, 1990). In
this study, we use a polyclonal antibody to study GFAP
immunoreactivity in normal and injured axial nerve cords from
Octopus rubescens, which are able to regenerate these nerve cords.
These tissues basically consist of a series of ganglia
