(3)
of approaches were used in the attempt to answer these
questions. Numerous field observations were made to
determine what algae the snails had access to, and if
they were ever in contact. Principal proof of feeding
was based on examinations of the stomach contents of
disected snails, from which ingested tissue fragments
could be compaired with scrapings from the algae on
which the snail was found, or on which it was believed
to have fed. In a few cases, feces were also examined
for recognizable algal fragments. Several types of
laboratory experiments were attempted to supplement
field observations. In a few instances it was sufficient
to place a winkle together with a dampened piece of
algae in a dish. Better results were obtained in an
aguarium the contents of which were kept wet but not
submerged by a fine sea water spray. An aquarium was
also rigged to duplicate tidal fluctuations, but in no
case were conditions similarenough to those in the field
to get normal responses for any length of time. North
(1954, p. 193) noted that food cycled completely through
the digestive tract in from 24 to 6 hours. Thus the
stomach contents of any snail kept for six hours with a
single type of algae, or starved for six hours and then
placed with an alga, could come only from that alga.
This provided a simple and reliable check for other
types of observations.
A number of difficulties were encountered in the
