(10)
showed only 2% of the L. planaxis on algal substrates;
for another check under more favorable conditions
(overcast sky), about 10% were observed on Cladophora.
One individual collected and disected had a considerable
quantity of Cladophora in its stomach and a filament
hanging out of its mouth, so feeding was almost certainly
taking place in these cases. L. planaxis has also been
collected in a few instances on the thallus of what is
either a high form of Rhodoglossum affine (the name used
in this paper), or a juvenile form of Gigartina cristata.
The stomachs of these snails contained a few fragments
of tissue closely resembling scrapings from the alga, but
in such small quantities as to be an insignificant part
of its diet. Snails collected from patches of Prasiola
meridionalis Setchell and Gardner on rocks covered with
bird guano at Mussel Point proved to have large quantities
of this alga, often whole thalli, in their stomachs and
feces, in addition to quantities of a microscopic
chlamydomonad. These are the only instances in the
present study in which L. planaxis has been found to eat
macroscopic algae under natural conditions. A number of
laboratory experiments suggest reasons for this behavior.
In one experiment, thalli of Endocladia, Rhodoglossum,
and Porphyra were finely chopped with a razor blade
and spread on the wet bottoms of petri dishes; dishes
with whole thalli, and a dish with a growth of GATGOR
