the tentacles without sticking and causing a contraction.
Hours of observations suggest that the small appendages and
upper abdomen obtain a mucus via the antennae.
The observation that unacclimated crabs, if large enough,
when placed on the oral disc can escape even after being
swallowed by the anemone indicates the crab is well adapted
to establish its symbiotic relationship. However, the escape
takes quite a bit of time in which the crab could be doing
other things. Also when the crabs are too small to free them¬
selves they will be eaten. The acclimation process permits the
pagurids to freely exploit their environment, gain another
source of food, and perhaps other unrecognized advantages.
Where encounters are frequent, as in crowded tide pools, this
has obvious advantages for both in simple saving of time.
Because of their similarity in times of activity, habitat
and population abundance, it seems evolutionarily and eco¬
logically fitting that their daily routines should involve
each other. Association may have evolved commensally as the
hermit crab acquired a series of behavioral acts to obtain a
food source. Benefits if proven for the anemone would give it
a more mutualistic definition.
