10
6 and 7 is shown in Figure 6a. All symbols between the diverging
slope lines in Figure 6 represent pairs in which the smaller
member is at least 2/3 the size of the larger. This suggests
itself to be the practical limit in size disproportion in pairs
found in the field. An overall survey of populations in which
only the most disproportionate pairs were selected yielded only
4 out of 84 pairs taken that failed to fall within the suggested
limits. A few of these limit-defining pairs are also recorded
on the scattergram.
A breakdown of size frequency by sex of the two scattergram
populations is presented in Figure 7. Here is suggested one
reason why more disproportionate pairs are not found: very
large males and females are not found in the same populations
with very small individuals. Therefore, in addition to the me-
chanical problems of copulation between Littorina planaxis in-
dividuals with grossly disproportionate genitalia, there are
undoubtedly many ecological pressures involved which keep large
and small snails apartiin nature, such as size as a factor in
withstanding wave shock, desiccation, etc. However, laboratory
experiments in which large males were kept isolated with small
females, and conversely, for two weeks yielded only one pair, out-
side the 2/3 limit but not significantly so, while control in-
dividuals under the same environmental conditions paired readily.
