Chronic Stress. Six zebrafish were acclimated in a single transparent tank with a mesh
divider, dividing them into 2 groups of 3 fish. The oscar fish were acclimated in an
identical tank, also capable of being divided in half. After 2 weeks of acclimation, at
IOAM, 3 zebrafish were transferred from their home-tank into the identically divided
oscar tank, separated from the oscars by a mesh divider. The mesh divider allowed for
the circulation of water between both sides of the tank. Following 4 hours of exposure to
the oscars, the zebrafish were removed and placed into BrdU and then back into their
home-tank. This was repeated for two more days and after the third day of oscar
exposure, the fish were sacrificed following BrdU exposure. The other group of
zebrafish was not exposed to the Oscars and sacrificed after the third day of BrdU
exposure to be used as a control.
Labeling New Cells with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)
In both experiments, the zebrafish were placed into BrdU (Sigma, St. Louis, MO)
immediately following oscar exposure to label mitotically active cells. 1% aqueousÂ¬
BrdU was made in distilled water and placed in 60ml aliquots into Petri dishes.
Immediately after oscar exposure, the 3 acutely stressed zebrafish and 3 controls were
each placed into separate Petri dishes for 2 hours of BrdU exposure. To allow for
adequate S-phase incorporation of BrdU, fish were placed back into their home-tank for
1 hour before being sampled. The chronically stressed fish were placed in 60 ml, 1%
BrdU Petri dishes daily for 1 hour, immediately following exposure to the oscar fish.
After their last BrdU exposure, all of the fish were anaesthetized in cold water,
decapitated, and then heads were placed in 4.0% paraformaldehyde for 24 hrs.
