e
11
Carol S. Millard
FIGURE CAPTIONS
Figure 1, A - U. Daily changes in size, shape, and number of
individuals in a cluster of Acmaea digitalis on a vertical
rock face, April 26 to May 27, 1966. Outlined clusters conÂ¬
tain limpets one centimeter or less from nearest neighbors.
The number on the cluster shows the number of limpets in it,
Day and month are shown in arabic and roman numerals
respectively; hours of observation are given in the lower
right hand corner of each figure. Lines on the grid were
1.5 inches apart on the rock. The darkened square occupies
the same space on the rock in each figure. Figure 1,u shows
the cumulative total of all the area occupied by the cluster
during the month of the study,
Figure 2. Area occupied by the cluster on successive days,
based on the data in Figure 1. Line A represents the total
area covered by the cluster at any given observation time.
Line B represents the area occupied by the cluster during a
given observation which was not occupied at the previous
observation. Line C represents the overlap of the cluster at
any given reading with the area occupied at the previous
observation. Line D represents the area which has not been
occupied previously by the cluster at any time during the
present study.
27
